<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" id="AFARS_5101.602190" xml:lang="en-US" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <title outputclass="Heading 4">
      <ph props="autonumber">5101.602-1-90</ph> Departmental review and approval.</title>
   <conbody>
      <p outputclass="List1">(a)  At any time during the procurement process, the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army for Procurement (DASA(P)) may designate a proposed contractual action as Special Interest, and direct the responsible SCO or source selection authority to submit the proposed contractual action to the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Acquisition, Logistics and Technology) (ASA(ALT)) for review, notation, and/or approval.  </p>
      <p outputclass="List2">(1)  The SCO or source selection authority will provide any information, documents, and briefings requested, and will not take, or permit anyone else to take, final action on the proposed contractual action during the period of the DASA(P) review.  The SCO shall coordinate all proposed major decision points (e.g. Source Selection Authority appointments), with the DASA(P).  </p>
      <p outputclass="List2">(2)  The DASA(P) will customize the departmental review requirements on a case-by-case basis.. </p>
      <p outputclass="List2">(3)  In accordance with FAR 3.104-4(a), the ASA(ALT) has authorized personnel within the Office of the DASA(P), the Office of the Army General Counsel, and other personnel designated by the DASA(P) to receive full access to contractor bid or proposal information and source selection information in connection with such review. The contracting officer, under SCO direction, shall ensure the Virtual Contracting Enterprise Paperless Contract File contains all documents related to the proposed contractual action.  (See 5104.802 Contract files).</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">(b)  The DASA(P), as Enterprise HCA, or other Army HCAs may appoint Program or Project-specific SCOs in conjunction with this subpart. (See 5101.693-90)</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
