<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_5101.603390" xml:lang="en-US"><title outputclass="Heading 4"><ph props="autonumber">5101.603-3-90</ph> Other individuals authorized to procure supplies and services on behalf of the Army.</title><conbody><p outputclass="List2">In addition to the ordering officers identified in AFARS 5101.602-2-92, a contracting officer or one of the appointing officials identified in AFARS 5101.603-1 may designate individuals to procure supplies or services on behalf of the Army as specified in paragraphs (a) through (f) in this subsection.  Individuals in paragraphs (a) through (c) will prepare and submit information for reporting purposes to the supporting contracting office as specified by that office policy.  Individuals in (d) will report to the contracting office supporting the mobilization base.</p><p outputclass="List1">(a)  Contracting officers may authorize individuals to place calls under blanket purchase agreements.  (See FAR subpart 13.3, DFARS subpart 213.3, and subpart 5113.3.)</p><p outputclass="List1">(b)  Appointing officials may authorize Army aviators and masters of Army-owned or operated vessels to use Standard Form 44 (see FAR 13.306 or provisions of Army Regulation 710-2 and Department of the Army Pamphlet 710-2-2) for emergency purchases of supplies (e.g., fuels, oils, parts) and services (e.g., mechanical services, hangar services, landing and docking fees and employment of civilian guards or watchmen to safeguard Government property) under any of the following conditions:</p><p outputclass="List6">(1)  Authorized flights or voyages during which mechanical or meteorological conditions prevent obtaining required supplies and services from Government facilities.</p><p outputclass="List6">(2)  Conditions under which continuation of flight, voyage or mission would constitute a hazard to safety or endanger public property.</p><p outputclass="List6">(3)  Conditions under which procurement of supplies and services from Government facilities would interfere with approved flight plans or voyages.</p><p outputclass="List1">(c)  Appointing officials may issue the Governmentwide commercial purchase card to individuals to use in accordance with FAR 13.301.</p><p outputclass="List1">(d)  Appointing officials may authorize individuals in Reserve Components to procure supplies or services on behalf of the Army in the event of mobilization using Standard Form 44 and <ph><b>U.S. Army Forces Command</b></ph> Mobilization and Deployment System, Volume III.  Reserve Component unit commanders may purchase over-the-counter type items not exceeding the micro-purchase threshold per transaction.  The commander will use Standard Form 44 when a Federal Mobilization Order, requiring unit movement to a mobilization station or site, or where procurement support is not readily available from a supporting installation.  This temporary authority will expire upon resumption of procurement support by the contracting office at the mobilization station or supporting installation.</p><p outputclass="List1">(e)  Appointing officials may issue U.S. Government Travel Charge Cards to individuals for use on official travel.</p><p outputclass="List1">(f)  Appointing officials may authorize individuals identified in Army Regulation 725-50 to order supplies from General Services Administration Stores Depots using the Governmentwide commercial purchase card procedures.</p></conbody></concept>