<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_5102.101"
         xml:lang="en-US"
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title outputclass="Heading 3" class="- topic/title ">
      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">5102.101</ph> Definitions.</title>
   <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
      <p class="- topic/p ">“Army Acquisition Executive (AAE)” means the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Acquisition, Logistics and Technology), as designated by the Secretary of the Army.</p>
      <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">“Chief of the contracting office” means the person having direct responsibility for the operation of a contracting office as defined in FAR 2.1.   This person also has procurement authorities assigned by the Federal Acquisition Regulation and its supplements and performs contracting authorities as delegated by the HCA or senior contracting official.</p>
      <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">“Head of the agency” means the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Acquisition, Logistics and Technology) when executing authorities of the head of the agency for contracting procurement matters pursuant to laws and regulations, as designated by the Secretary of the Army. </p>
      <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">“Head of the contracting activity” means the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army (Procurement) for a contracting activity that does not have a HCA specifically designated.  This authority shall not be further delegated.  See delegations in 
            <xref href="https://armyeitaas.sharepoint-mil.us/:x:/r/sites/ASA-ALT-PAM-PP/_layouts/15/Doc.aspx?sourcedoc=%7BF79B63A9-3ED0-4830-89D1-F162968200C4%7D&amp;file=AFARSGG.xlsx&amp;action=default&amp;mobileredirect=true"
               format="html"
               scope="external">Appendix GG</xref>
         .  </p>
      <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">“Senior contracting official (SCO)” means the senior official for or within a contracting activity responsible for the performance of contracting authorities delegated by the HCA. (See AFARS 
         <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
               href="5101.693.dita#AFARS_5101.693"
               base="AFARS-5101.693"
               xtrc="5101.693"
               class="- topic/xref ">5101.693 Senior contracting official.</xref>)</p>
      <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">“Senior Procurement Executive (SPE)” means the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Acquisition, Logistics and Technology), as designated by the Secretary of the Army.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
