<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_5104.802"
         xml:lang="en-US"
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title outputclass="Heading 3" class="- topic/title ">
      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">5104.802</ph> Contract files.</title>
   <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(f) Contracting officers shall utilize the Virtual Contracting Enterprise (VCE) tools throughout the acquisition process to maximize visibility and management of contract specific information and documents. VCE shall not be used for classified documents or contracts. </p>
      <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i) The Paperless Contract File (PCF) module shall be used to store, access, and route documents necessary to manage the acquisition process for review and approval. Contracting officers shall ensure that the PCF contains all appropriate contract documents. If the contract document is maintained within the Procurement Integrated Enterprise Environment (PIEE, <xref href="https://wawf.eb.mil/"
               scope="external"
               format="html"
               class="- topic/xref "> 
            <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">https://wawf.eb.mil/</u> 
         </xref>) or the Federal Procurement Data System-Next Generation (FPDS-NG)), then that system is the official system of record; <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">C</ph>ontracting officers should not duplicate the document and file it in the PCF.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Follow procedures at <xref href="https://spcs3.kc.army.mil/asaalt/procurement/PGI/PGI_5104.aspx"
               format="html"
               scope="external"
               class="- topic/xref ">AFARS PGI 5104.802(f)(i)-2.</xref>
      </p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Follow procedures at <xref href="https://spcs3.kc.army.mil/asaalt/procurement/PGI/PGI_5104.aspx"
               format="html"
               scope="external"
               class="- topic/xref ">AFARS PGI 5104.802(f)(i)-1.</xref>
      </p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) The Army Cabinet Index folder structure shall be used
      when filing documents in PCF to ensure standardization throughout Army contract files. See
      AFARS PGI 5104.802(f)(i)(1) for instructions to access the cabinet index structure. </p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">W</ph>hen the <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">C</ph>ontracting officer receives knowledge of a preaward or postaward protest submitted to any venue<ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">, the Contracting officer shall notify the DASA(P) in accordance with AFARS <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                  href="5101.290.dita#AFARS_5101.290"
                  base="AFARS-5101.290"
                  xtrc="5101.290"
                  class="- topic/xref ">5101.290 Routing documents and mailing addresses.</xref>(a)(1)</ph>. </p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3) Milestone Tracking shall be used to forecast and document dates for
      initiation and completion of key documents and milestones. The VCE tool identifies the
      mandatory data fields based on specific criteria for the acquisition. </p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">See <xref href="https://spcs3.kc.army.mil/asaalt/procurement/PGI/PGI_5104.aspx"
               format="html"
               scope="external"
               class="- topic/xref ">AFARS PGI 5104.802(f)(i)(3)-1.</xref>
      </p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">See <xref href="https://spcs3.kc.army.mil/asaalt/procurement/PGI/PGI_5104.aspx"
               format="html"
               scope="external"
               class="- topic/xref ">AFARS PGI 5104.802(f)(i)(3)-2.</xref>
      </p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(4) Mission Partner/Requirement Owner Functionality shall be used by requirements owners to create cabinets and submit documents to contracting organizations. Contracting officers shall assist requirements owners as necessary to ensure utilization of the tool. </p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p "> (ii) VCE Warrants Module shall be used to issue and track <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">C</ph>ontracting officer and grant officer warrants; see <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">AFARS </ph>
         <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
               href="5101.6033.dita#AFARS_5101.6033"
               base="AFARS-5101.603-3"
               xtrc="5101.603-3"
               class="- topic/xref ">5101.603-3 Appointment.</xref>.</p>
      <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii) VCE shall be used for the Announcement of Awards and Small Business Coordination Record (DD Form 2579); see <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">AFARS </ph>
         <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
               href="5105.303.dita#AFARS_5105.303"
               base="AFARS-5105.303"
               xtrc="5105.303"
               class="- topic/xref ">5105.303 Announcement of contract awards.</xref> and <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
               href="5119.201.dita#AFARS_5119.201"
               base="AFARS-5119.201"
               xtrc="5119.201"
               class="- topic/xref ">5119.201 General policy.</xref>(d)(10)(B)(i) respectively.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
