<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_5106.502" xml:lang="en-US"><title outputclass="Heading 3"><ph props="autonumber">5106.502</ph> Duties and responsibilities.</title><conbody><p outputclass="List1">(a)  Local advocates for competition are an extension of the CAFC office and assist the CAFC in the accomplishment of their responsibilities.</p><p outputclass="List1">(b)(2)  Command advocates for competition must report the following information to the AAFC (see address at 5101.290(b)(2)(ii)(C)) no later than November 15 of each year, or as the AAFC specifies—</p><p outputclass="List4">(A)  The level of competition achieved against their goal for the fiscal year and, if applicable, reasons for not attaining the goal.</p><p outputclass="List4">(B)  Significant actions taken to increase competition or overcome barriers to competition, number of new sources identified as a result of market research, notable savings or performance or quality enhancements resulting from competition, and employees recognized for initiatives to enhance competition.</p><p outputclass="List4">(C)  Mitigating factors affecting goal achievement.</p><p outputclass="List4">(D)  A plan for competition in the coming fiscal year.</p><p outputclass="List4">(E)  Any other activities and accomplishments.</p><p outputclass="List4">(F)  Their competition goal for the coming fiscal year.</p><p outputclass="List2">(3)  Before seeking approval, CAFCs will coordinate their activity’s annual competition goals with the local small business specialist to balance socio-economic and competition goals with organizational interests.</p></conbody></concept>