<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="AFARS_5115.304"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <title outputclass="Heading 2">
      <ph props="autonumber">5115.304</ph> Evaluation factors and significant subfactors.</title>
   <conbody>
      <p id="pOVggm" outputclass="Normal">(b)(2)(A) Only the absolute minimum number of factors
         necessary for evaluation of proposals shall be established. When appropriate, the SSA may
         subdivide source selection factors into subfactors. On rare occasions, the SSA may further
         subdivide a subfactor into elements, if needed.</p>
      <p id="vmdpwz" outputclass="List2">(B) As stated in the AS3, evaluation factors and subfactors must be definable in readily understood qualitative terms (i.e., adjectival, colors, or other indicators, but not numbers) and represent the key areas of importance for consideration. Numerical weighting (i.e., assigning points or percentages to evaluation factors and subfactors) is not an authorized method of expressing the relative importance of the factors and subfactors.</p>
      <p id="wbuBCG" outputclass="List1">(d) When the Government intends to evaluate the cost of future production or performance beyond the instant contract, and to include these costs as part of the basis of selection and award, clearly specify the evaluation procedures for such costs in the solicitation. Additionally, <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024">C</ph>ontracting officers must specify in the solicitation the Government’s procedures and methodologies for developing any estimates before using any of the associated cost estimates for evaluating future or life cycle costs.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
