<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_5117.5021" xml:lang="en-US"><title outputclass="Heading 3"><ph props="autonumber">5117.502-1</ph> General.</title><conbody><p outputclass="List1">(a)  <i>Written agreement on responsibility for management and administration.</i></p><p outputclass="List2">(1)  Use the DD Form 448, Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request (MIPR) as Part B of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy (OFPP) model interagency agreement.  If a non-DoD agency is unable to accept a MIPR for Part B, use the Part B provided in the OFPP model interagency agreement.</p><p outputclass="List1">(b)  <i>Business-case analysis requirements for multi-agency contracts and governmentwide acquisition contracts.</i>  For guidance on business-case analysis, see FAR 17.502-1(c).  Submit the business case to the Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army (Procurement) at the email address listed in 5101.290(b)(2)(ii)(A).</p><p outputclass="List3">(i)  <i>Cover </i><i>l</i><i>etter.</i>  The SCO shall sign the cover letter, recommending the business case for approval.  The letter must indicate whether there is any Congressional interest in the procurement.</p><p outputclass="List3">(ii)  <i>Business </i><i>c</i><i>ase </i><i>r</i><i>eview </i><i>d</i><i>ocument.</i>  The business case review document shall include the signatures of the preparer, contracting officer, technical representative, requirements representative, program manager, program executive officer, legal counsel, and SCO.</p><p outputclass="List3">(iii)  <i>Business </i><i>c</i><i>ase.</i>  Use the format provided at FAR 17.502-1(c).  Include the command control number on the upper right hand corner of every page of the business case, including the review document and approval page, to enable the reassembling of the business case analysis if the documents become separated.</p><p outputclass="List3">(iv)  <i>Approval </i><i>p</i><i>age.</i>  Submit the approval language as the last page of the business case on a plain page, not letterhead.</p></conbody></concept>