<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="AFARS_5117.9008"
         xml:lang="en-US"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title outputclass="Heading 3" class="- topic/title ">
      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">5117.9008</ph> Internal controls.</title>
   <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a)  The internal control program must include the following:</p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  Separation of duties and responsibilities to establish internal checks and balances.</p>
      <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i)  Project scoping and project quality assurance/acceptance activities will be kept separate.  Individuals involved with project scoping and development as well as proposal negotiations with the contractor will not be the same individual responsible for monitoring quality assurance.  The responsibility for recommending acceptance of completed work will remain with separate quality assurance personnel.  Alternatives are acceptable; however, they must meet the intent of 5117.9008(a)(1).</p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  Clear assignment of responsibilities and authority throughout the JOC process.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b)  An internal control JOC action and documentation checklist, tailored to the needs of the command or installation shall be developed to assist personnel responsible for management of JOC.  Activities may use those measures outlined in the Internal Control and Review Plan, Appendix D of the JOC Guide to supplement existing internal control plans.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
