<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "/home/ec2-user/ditatool/dita-ot-2.5.4/plugins/org.oasis-open.dita.v1_3/dtd/technicalContent/dtd/ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_5119.201">
   <title outputclass="Heading 3">
      <ph props="autonumber">5119.201</ph> General policy.</title>
   <conbody>
      <p id="niynSX" outputclass="List1">(d) The deputy for each program executive officer or program manager is the designated point of contact to the supporting command small business specialist. The small business specialist will assist in drafting the small business strategy in support of each acquisition strategy; assist in the requirements process to maximize small business opportunities; identify potential products or services suitable for award to small or small disadvantaged businesses; and conduct informal training for contracting officers, specialists, requiring activities, and program offices.</p>
      <p id="NIfGvo" outputclass="List2">(7) The Director, U.S. Army Office of Small Business Programs, shall have an opportunity to comment on, and contribute to, the performance evaluation of associate directors. Associate directors must have the same opportunity to comment and or contribute to the performance evaluation for the principle small business specialist at subordinate activities. See paragraph (e) in this section for associate director appointment.</p>
      <p id="OradrJ" outputclass="List2">(8)(A) At those contracting activities where there is a resident SBA procurement center representative (PCR), the small business technical advisor (SBTA) cannot be a small business specialist.</p>
      <p id="MysEzn" outputclass="List4">(B) At those activities where the assignment of an SBTA is not required, but where requirements are technically complex, the activity must identify a technical point of contact to the PCR and small business specialist. Upon request, the technical contact will provide the PCR and small business specialist technical advice and information to support their reviews of acquisition actions.</p>
      <p id="AGbzjy" outputclass="List4">(C) Duties of the SBTA may include the following types of technical assistance:</p>
      <p id="UTloQY" outputclass="List6">(<i>1</i>) Explaining and interpreting drawings, specifications, and other technical data.</p>
      <p id="TruKBk" outputclass="List6">(<i>2</i>) Providing information on the requisite professional skills, facilities, production equipment, and other necessary capabilities required for production, testing, quality control, etc.</p>
      <p id="XbepoU" outputclass="List6">(<i>3</i>) Arranging for technical personnel to provide assistance on subject matter outside the SBTA’s expertise.</p>
      <p id="UUlBPe" outputclass="List6">(<i>4</i>) Helping identify acquisitions that are candidates for breakout.</p>
      <p id="LZfaUz" outputclass="List6">(<i>5</i>) Helping identify candidates for the small business program which includes small business, small disadvantaged business, women-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, veteran-owned small business, and historically underutilized business zone program.</p>
      <p id="UYSVQY" outputclass="List6">(<i>6</i>) Assisting in the reviewing of acquisition plans.</p>
      <p id="gpYTlp" outputclass="List2">(10)(B)(<i>i</i>) To facilitate the review of the DD Form 2579, the contracting officer shall prepare and submit the DD Form 2579 for all acquisitions above $10,000 using the Virtual Contracting Enterprise. This includes all delivery and task orders under multiple award, indefinite delivery indefinite quantity contracts and GSA Federal Supply Schedule orders. DD2579s are not required for small business set-aside actions unless the contracting activity deems otherwise. The original DD Form 2579 shall remain in the contract file with a copy furnished to the SBA PCR and the activity small business specialist. Contracting activities shall develop written procedures that will provide adequate lead time to review DD2579s prior to posting the synopsis to the Government point of entry.</p>
      <p id="AiRKgp" outputclass="List7">
         <b>(<i>ii</i>) The small business specialist serving the contracting office must number the Control Number on the DD Form 2579 consecutively starting with fiscal year followed by “1,” e.g., 13-1, 13-2. The small business specialist must review and sign the DD Form 2579. If the SBA PCR lacks the necessary security clearance to review the DD Form 2579, the contracting officer shall contact the SBA office serving the area where the contracting office is located for assistance.</b>
      </p>
      <p id="xvUsHN" outputclass="List7">
         <b>(<i>iii</i>) The DD Form 2579 must be made available only to personnel who have a “need to know” until the contract is awarded. Copies distributed outside the Army, including SBA PCR coordination, must be marked “For Official Use Only.”</b>
      </p>
      <p id="wyuUOc" outputclass="List1">(e) The commander of each command or subordinate activity responsible for a contracting office must appoint a small business specialist. The commander of each Army Command, Army Service Component Command and Direct Reporting Unit with delegated contracting authority, including Headquarters Army Materiel Command, shall appoint a full-time associate director, U.S. Army Office of Small Business Programs. Those contracting activities whose total annual obligations with U.S. business concerns (large and small) or its outlying areas exceed $100 million will appoint full-time small business personnel, unless an annual waiver is obtained from the Director, U.S. Army Office of Small Business Programs. For planning purposes contracting offices whose annual contract obligations exceed $300 million should consider appointing a minimum of two full-time small business specialists and a minimum of three full-time small business specialists for offices that exceed $700 million in contract obligations. Commanders of contracting offices whose area of responsibility exceeds 100,000 square miles should consider appointing a minimum of two full-time small business specialists.</p>
      <p id="wmtwht" outputclass="List3">(i) Only individuals in the 1102 job classification series who possess business acumen and knowledge of contracting policy and procedures and who have the training and background to accomplish the policy and objectives of the small business program may be appointed as associate directors, assistant directors, and small business specialists.</p>
      <p id="GSDjxB" outputclass="List3">(ii) Prior to a proposed job offer and appointment the Director, U.S. Army Office of Small Business Programs, shall review and provide concurrence for selection of all full or part-time associate directors as well as for all deputy associate directors, headquarters small business staff, and all other personnel performing any small business function, regardless of position description title, at all levels within the Army. This includes, but is not limited to, contracting activities, contract management activities, subordinate activities, and direct reporting units, including Headquarters Army Materiel Command.</p>
      <p id="p_OLE_LINK13" outputclass="List3">(iii) The contracting activity shall furnish the name, grade level, position, title, telephone numbers (commercial and Defense Switched Network), email and activity location of newly appointed part-time small business specialist to the Director, U.S. Army Office of Small Business Programs, within 30 calendar days after appointment. When applicable, identify the small business specialist being replaced.</p>
      <p id="ZUqSCu" outputclass="List3">(iv) Contracting activities should routinely appoint alternate small business specialists to ensure processing of DD2579s in a timely manner in the absence of a full or part-time small business specialist. Alternate small business specialists shall be in the 1102 job classification series and cannot have other duties that cause a conflict of interest.</p>
      <p id="lRVlPz" outputclass="List3">(v) Full-time, part-time, and alternate small business specialists shall complete all Defense Acquisition University courses as required by the U.S. Army Office of Small Business Programs within one year after appointment and achieve certification in contracting at his or her assigned level.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
