<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_5119.5028"
         xml:lang="en-US"
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title outputclass="Heading 3" class="- topic/title ">
      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">5119.502-8</ph> Rejecting Small Business Administration
      recommendations.</title>
   <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) The head of the contracting activity shall make the decision as described in FAR 19.505(b). See 
            <xref href="https://armyeitaas.sharepoint-mil.us/:x:/r/sites/ASA-ALT-PAM-PP/_layouts/15/Doc.aspx?sourcedoc=%7BF79B63A9-3ED0-4830-89D1-F162968200C4%7D&amp;file=AFARSGG.xlsx&amp;action=default&amp;mobileredirect=true"
               format="html"
               scope="external">Appendix GG</xref>
          for further delegation.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d)(i) Process appeals, on a case-by-case basis, in accordance with the appropriate FAR section (19.502-8, 19.810, 19.1305, 19.1405, 19.1505, or 19.506) and in accordance with instructions from the Director, Headquarters Department of the Army, Office of Small Business Programs (HQDA, OSBP). The Contracting officer will prepare and submit the case file documents by email to the HQDA, OSBP Program Manager through contracting and small business channels. The files shall be coordinated with the Associate Director (AD), prior to the  
         Contracting officer releasing to HQDA. </p>
      <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii) The small business specialist at each level must review the case.
         The case file must include –</p>
      <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A) A statement of attempts to resolve the matter;</p>
      <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B) A response to each issue raised by SBA in its appeal;</p>
      <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(C) Supporting documents related to controversial aspects; and</p>
      <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii) Suspension of all actions on the requirement pending outcome of
         the appeal.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
