<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_5132.702"
         xml:lang="en-US"
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title outputclass="Heading 2" class="- topic/title ">
      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">5132.702</ph> Policy.</title>
   <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a)(i)  Except as authorized in FAR subparts 17.1 and 32.7 and in paragraphs (a)(ii) and (iii) in this section, before issuing a solicitation, the Contracting officer must have a written statement or equivalent indicating that sufficient funds are available.</p>
      <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii) Contracting officers may issue solicitations for high priority requirements and Research, Development, Test and Evaluation incrementally funded contracts before ensuring availability of funds when there is a high probability that the requiring activity will not cancel the requirement. For foreign military sales cases, Contracting officers may issue solicitations after the acceptance of a foreign military sales case, but before assurance of funds availability when the United States Army Security Assistance Command determines in writing that the offer appears certain to be accepted.</p>
      <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A)  The Contracting officer shall not issue a solicitation under the circumstances in (a)(ii) unless the comptroller has signed the following statement on the purchase request:</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">“This requirement is included or provided for in the financial plan for fiscal year ______.  The accounting classification will be _______.  This statement is not a commitment of funds.”</p>
      <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B)  The Contracting officer shall include the following statement in all solicitations issued pursuant to this authority when the clause at FAR 52.232-18, Availability of Funds, is not used:</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">“Funds are not presently available for this acquisition.  No contract award will be made until appropriated funds are made available.”</p>
      <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(C)  The operating official designated, by local regulations or by a “delegation of authority” letter, as the official authorized to certify funds availability, must certify funds available prior to contract award.</p>
      <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(D) The Contracting officer shall not issue a solicitation for a research and development contract that is incrementally funded over successive years without sufficient planned funds (Future Years Defense Program) to cover the entire period of the multi-year performance. The HCA may approve an exception, provided the approval identifies steps to revise the approved Future Years Defense Program to include adequate resources.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
