<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_5133.103"
         xml:lang="en-US"
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title outputclass="Heading 2" class="- topic/title ">
      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">5133.103</ph> Protests to the agency.</title>
   <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d)(3) As soon as practicable, the <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">C</ph>ontracting officer must consult with the legal office concerning the protest. <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">P</ph>rotests received at a level higher than the <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">C</ph>ontracting office<ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">r</ph> 
         <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">should be referred </ph>to the contracting officer for resolution. Concurrent with this referral, the office that initially received the protest must inform the protester, identifying the contracting office that will handle the protest and giving the point of contact within that office.</p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(4)  Handle requests for independent review of a protest at a level above the <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">C</ph>ontracting officer as follows:</p>
      <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i) For <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">C</ph>ontracting officers under the jurisdiction of the <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">United States </ph>Army Materiel Command (AMC), in accordance with AMC established procedures.</p>
      <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii)  For <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">C</ph>ontracting officers under the jurisdiction of the United States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE), in accordance with the USACE established procedures.</p>
      <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii) For <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">C</ph>ontracting officers in all other contracting activities, in accordance with activity established procedures. If contracting personnel will conduct the independent review, the HCA will appoint a review authority. See <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">
            <xref href="https://armyeitaas.sharepoint-mil.us/:x:/r/sites/ASA-ALT-PAM-PP/_layouts/15/Doc.aspx?sourcedoc=%7BF79B63A9-3ED0-4830-89D1-F162968200C4%7D&amp;file=AFARSGG.xlsx&amp;action=default&amp;mobileredirect=true"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">Appendix GG</xref>
         </ph> for further delegation. The HCA or delegated designee, may also appoint individuals assigned outside contracting channels as a review authority (e.g., attorneys, chief of staff, installation commanders).</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
