<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="AFARS_5133.17090"
         xml:lang="en-US"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title outputclass="Heading 3" class="- topic/title ">
      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">5133.170-90</ph> Procedures.</title>
   <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a)  Within 10 days of receipt of a protest, provide an initial, written notification of the protest via email to the Office of the DASA(P) and furnish a copy to the SCO, field attorney and trial attorney.  The initial notification shall be in the form of a briefing and shall include the following items:</p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  Buying activity and contracting officer with phone number and email address.</p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  Protester and counsel.</p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3)  Protest number and date filed.</p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(4)  Protest forum (GAO or Court of Federal Claims).</p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(5)  Description of the protested acquisition, estimated dollar value and whether it is a pre- or post-award protest.</p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(6)  Summary of protest allegations.</p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(7)  Status of the stay or stop work order.</p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(8)  Anticipated date of protest resolution.</p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(9)  Any other information deemed appropriate.</p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(10)  Attach a copy of the protest.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b)  After the contracting officer formulates the agency response, he/she may provide more detailed information relating to the position that the agency will take before filing the agency report in the protest action.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c)  If required, the contracting officer shall schedule a formal briefing on the protest with the DASA(P) or Defense Procurement and Acquisition Policy subsequent to the submission of the follow-up information.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
