<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_5133.104" class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title outputclass="Heading 2" class="- topic/title ">
      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">5133.104</ph> Protests to GAO.</title>
   <conbody outputclass="List6" class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">General procedure.</i> The Contracting officer must take the
         action required of the “agency” in FAR 33.104.</p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3)(i)(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">1</i>) Contracting offices must use the following reporting
         procedures; the SCO may require the contracting offices to send the report through the
         SCO’s office:</p>
      <p outputclass="List7" class="- topic/p ">(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i</i>) Contracting offices reporting to AMC must send the report
         directly to the addressee in AFARS 5101.290(b)(7).</p>
      <p outputclass="List7" class="- topic/p ">(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">ii</i>) Contracting offices reporting directly to the USACE must
         send the report directly to the following address:</p>
      <p class="- topic/p "> </p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">U.S. Army Corps of Engineers</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Attn: CECC-C</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">441 G St., N.W.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Washington, DC 20314-1000.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p "> </p>
      <p outputclass="List7" class="- topic/p ">(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">iii</i>) All other Army contracting offices must send the report
         via courier or express mail service to:</p>
      <p class="- topic/p "> </p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">U.S. Legal Services Agency, ATTN: JALS-KFLD</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Contract Litigation &amp; Intellectual Property Division (KLIP)</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">9275 Gunston Road, Suite 2100</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">Fort Belvoir, VA 22060-5546.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p "> </p>
      <p outputclass="List7" class="- topic/p ">(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">iv</i>) The Contracting officer must send the report not later than 20 days after the GAO notifies the agency by telephone that a protest has been filed. If the GAO decides to use the express option and the Contracting officer concludes that the report cannot be furnished in time, he/she must notify the appropriate office in (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i</i>)-(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">iii</i>) at once so that it may request an extension from GAO.</p>
      <p outputclass="List6" class="- topic/p ">(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">2</i>) Before forwarding the report to the GAO Comptroller General, the addressees in paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">1</i>)(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i</i>)-(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">iii</i>) of this section must review the report and recommend any changes required to ensure the report is accurate, complete, and legally sufficient.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Protests before award.</i> See 
            <xref href="https://armyeitaas.sharepoint-mil.us/:x:/r/sites/ASA-ALT-PAM-PP/_layouts/15/Doc.aspx?sourcedoc=%7BF79B63A9-3ED0-4830-89D1-F162968200C4%7D&amp;file=AFARSGG.xlsx&amp;action=default&amp;mobileredirect=true"
               format="html"
               scope="external">Appendix GG</xref>
         . </p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)(A) The Contracting officer must prepare a determination and
         findings (D&amp;F) for HCA concurrence when it is necessary to request authorization to
         award a contract notwithstanding a protest. The D&amp;F must clearly address –</p>
      <p outputclass="List6" class="- topic/p ">(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">1</i>) Whether significant adverse consequences will necessarily
         occur if the stay is not overridden;</p>
      <p outputclass="List6" class="- topic/p ">(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">2</i>) Whether reasonable alternatives to the override exist that
         would adequately address the circumstances presented;</p>
      <p outputclass="List6" class="- topic/p ">(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">3</i>) How the potential costs of proceeding with the override,
         including the costs associated with the potential that GAO might sustain the protest,
         compare to the benefits associated with the approach being considered for addressing the
         agency’s needs; and</p>
      <p outputclass="List6" class="- topic/p ">(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">4</i>) The impact of the override on competition and the integrity
         of the procurement system.</p>
      <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B) A written notification to the Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army (Procurement) is required, no less than one day before any HCA override is approved. The Contracting officer shall send notification documentation as outlined in subparagraph (b)(1)(A) to the address listed at AFARS 5101.290(b)(2)(ii)(B). (See Override of Competition in Contracting Act (CICA) Stays: A Guidebook). </p>
      <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(C) Within three days after the contracting office receives
         notification of the protest, the HCA may endorse the request for approval and
         electronically transmit the request and the D&amp;F to the appropriate office in paragraphs
            (a)(3)(i)(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">1</i>)(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i</i>)-(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">iii</i>) of this section. That office shall
         immediately distribute the request and the D&amp;F to the addressee in AFARS 5101.290(b)(1).</p>
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Protests after award. </i>See <xref href="https://armyeitaas.sharepoint-mil.us/:x:/r/sites/ASA-ALT-PAM-PP/_layouts/15/Doc.aspx?sourcedoc=%7BF79B63A9-3ED0-4830-89D1-F162968200C4%7D&amp;file=AFARSGG.xlsx&amp;action=default&amp;mobileredirect=true"
               format="html"
               scope="external"
               class="- topic/xref ">Appendix GG</xref>.</p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) Process the finding as required at paragraph (b) of this section. The D&amp;F must clearly address the areas identified in paragraph (b)(1)(A). The DASA(P) must approve the D&amp;F before the Contracting officer authorizes continuing performance. Furthermore, a written notification to the DASA(P) is required, no less than one day before any HCA override is granted. The Contracting officer shall send notification documentation as outlined in subparagraph (b)(1)(A) to the address listed at AFARS 5101.290(b)(2)(ii)(B). Process the request for approval as required in paragraph (b)..</p>
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p "> (g) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Notice to GAO</i>. The head of the contracting activity shall report to GAO as described at FAR 33.104(g). See 
            <xref href="https://armyeitaas.sharepoint-mil.us/:x:/r/sites/ASA-ALT-PAM-PP/_layouts/15/Doc.aspx?sourcedoc=%7BF79B63A9-3ED0-4830-89D1-F162968200C4%7D&amp;file=AFARSGG.xlsx&amp;action=default&amp;mobileredirect=true"
               format="html"
               scope="external">Appendix GG</xref>
          for further delegation. Send the report to the addressee in AFARS 5101.290(b)(1) not later than 45 days after receipt of the recommendations. </p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
