<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="AFARS_5137.5902"
         xml:lang="en-US"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title outputclass="Heading 3" class="- topic/title ">
      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">5137.590-2</ph> Applicability.</title>
   <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
      <p class="- topic/p ">(a)  Oversight of services acquisition is the shared responsibility of requiring activities, contracting activities, and the Office of the ASA(ALT).  See DoDI 5000.74, Defense Acquisition of Services, section 2 for applicability of the instruction and this subpart.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">(b)  Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) below, and DoDI 5000.74, paragraph 1.1. b, the requirements in this section apply to  service acquisitions including any service acquisition determined to be of special interest by the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics (USD(AT&amp;L)), the ASA(ALT), the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army (Procurement) (DASA(P)), and the Senior Services Manager (SSM).</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">(c)  The requirements in this section also apply to any acquisition of services that is made through the use of a contract or task order entered into or issued by an agency other than the DoD, unless the non-defense agency has certified in accordance with FAR 17.703(a).</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">(d)  Task orders executed within a service acquisition reviewed pursuant to this subpart do not require a separate acquisition strategy or review, provided the contracting officer issues the task order consistent with any conditions specified by the acquisition strategy decision authority.  A separate acquisition strategy may be executed for complex task orders.  </p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">(e)  Decision authorities shall retain the ability to respond rapidly to emergencies.  Accordingly, the decision authority may approve either verbally or electronically services determined to be an emergency acquisition in accordance with FAR 18.001(a), (b) or (c).  This procedure requires a formal notification of intent by the contracting officer to the decision authority.  This procedure also requires the submission of a formal acquisition strategy to the decision authority within 30 days of the notice to proceed.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
