<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="AFARS_5139.7602"
         xml:lang="en-US"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <title outputclass="Heading 3">
      <ph props="autonumber">5139.7602</ph> Policy and Responsibilities.</title>
   <conbody>
      <p outputclass="List2">(1) Contracting Officers are responsible to ensure that Purchase Request Packages for NEW Contracts include a PWS with the approved/standard language in accordance with 5111.106 unless a waiver approved by <ph rev="Revised February 27, 2023">ECMA </ph> is included. The standard language is provided in Appendix HH. The waiver must be filed in the official contract file. This includes follow-on contracts. </p>
      <p outputclass="List2">(2) Contracting Officers are responsible to ensure Purchase Request Packages for Exercising an Option on an Existing Contracts are coordinated with <ph rev="Revised February 27, 2023">ECMA </ph> IAW 5111.106. The coordination document shall be filed in the contract file.</p>
      <p outputclass="List2">(3) Contracting Officers are responsible to ensure Purchase Request Packages for issuing a New Order against an Existing Contract are coordinated with <ph rev="Revised February 27, 2023">ECMA </ph> IAW 5111.106. The coordination documentation shall be filed in the contract file.</p>
      <p outputclass="List2">(4) For New contracts to Cloud Service Providers, Contracting Officers are responsible to ensure maximum use of the Common and Data Service Descriptions as defined by <ph rev="Revised February 27, 2023">ECMA </ph> in the Army Cloud Plan and issued to Contracting by DASA(P). See Appendix HH.</p>
      <p outputclass="List2">(5) For New contracts for Cloud Migration, Hosting, and Managed Services, Contracting Officers and requiring actitivies will maxmize use of the CLIN/SLIN descriptions.  See Appendix HH.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
