<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_5142.1901"
         xml:lang="en-US"
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title outputclass="Heading 4" class="- topic/title ">
      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">5142.190-1</ph> Responsibilities.</title>
   <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a)  The Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army (Procurement) is the Army’s contract audit follow-up official.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b)  The senior contracting official (SCO) shall perform the functions of the Army’s contract audit follow-up official for their respective commands.  SCOs shall –</p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  Establish Overage Audit Review Boards;</p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  Ensure that the effective resolution and disposition of audit findings and recommendations in a timely manner while fully protecting the Government’s interests is a factor in organizational and individual performance standards and objectives; and</p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3)  Maintain close surveillance of all contract audit reports, resolve, and dispose any audit reported.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c)  Chiefs of contracting or contract administration offices shall track and assist <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">C</ph>ontracting officers in the resolution and disposition of those audit recommendations which appear unlikely to be resolved within six months of the date of an audit report.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d) Contract Audit Follow Up Monitor </p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) The Monitor shall receive new audits and coordinate with Contracting <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">o</ph>fficers, their SCO and the ODASA(P) to resolve and disposition audits in a timely manner. </p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) The Monitor shall ensure Contracting <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">o</ph>fficers receive a copy of the audit and status updates on the resolution and disposition of the audit on a monthly basis. </p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3) The Monitor shall maintain current information and status of the audits in the Contract Audit Follow Up system. </p>
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(e) Contracting officers shall –</p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)  Resolve the recommendations as described in DoD Instruction (DoDI) 7640.02 not later than six months from the date of the audit report and dispose those recommendations within 12 months;</p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  Invite the auditor to participate in the review when it is considered necessary; and</p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3) Appear before the Overage Audit Review Board to discuss the resolution and disposition of any audit reported in accordance with <xref href="5142.1904.dita#AFARS_5142.1904"
               outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
               class="- topic/xref ">5142.190-4</xref>(a)(4). </p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
