<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept
   xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
   id="AFARS_5153.217"
   xml:lang="en-US"
   ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <title
      outputclass="Heading 4"
      rev="Revised April 11, 2023"> <ph
      props="autonumber">5153.217-90</ph> Instructions for Congressional Notification Requirement When Utilizing Army Class Deviation 2023-PP02 Multiyear Procurement Authority for Certain Munitions, dated 11 April 2023.</title>
   <conbody>
      <p
         rev="Revised April 11, 2023"><xref
         href="https://spcs3.kc.army.mil/asaalt/procurement/ClassDeviations/T6JH_Army%20Class%20Deviation_MYP%201244(c)%20NDAA%20FY23_FINAL%20v4_11APR23.pdf"
         format="pdf"
         scope="external">Army Class Deviation 2023-PP02 Multiyear Procurement Authority for Certain Munitions</xref> implements section 1244(c) of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year (FY) 2023 (Public Law 117-263). This subsection allows the head of an agency to enter into one or more multiyear contracts, beginning in fiscal year 2023, for the procurement of certain munitions (see class deviation for complete list). The Joint Explanatory Statement that accompanies NDAA FY 2023 requires the Department to notify in writing the congressional defense committees not more than 30 days after using an authority provided in that subsection. This notification shall include the specific authority used, a description of such use, reason for such use, and expected outcome of such use. </p>
      <p
         rev="Revised April 11, 2023">To ensure compliance with this requirement, the ODASA(P) will task Commands via Enterprise Task Management Software Solution (ETMS2) monthly to provide a listing of applicable actions falling within the 30-day congressional notification period. A template will be provided in ETMS2 requiring data to include, but not limited to, specific authority used, a description of such use, reason for such use, and expected outcome of such use. Contracting Officers shall submit this data via ETMS2 and the ODASA(P) will review for completeness and submit to the congressional defense committees. </p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
