<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_5153.20693"
         xml:lang="en-US"
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title outputclass="Heading 4"
          class="- topic/title "
          rev="Revised January 12, 2024"> 
      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">5153.206-93</ph> Instructions for Congressional Notification Requirement When Utilizing the Authorities Conferred by paragraphs (B) – (G) of DPC Class Deviation 2024- O0005—Temporary Authorizations for Covered Contracts Related to Ukraine, Taiwan, and Israel; Workload Forecasting Instructions</title>
   <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
      <p rev="Revised January 12, 2024"
         outputclass="List1"
         class="- topic/p ">a. <ph id="_Hlk155705747" class="- topic/ph ">When using the authority at paragraph (B) of of DPC Class Devaition 2024-</ph>O0005 – Temporary Authoritzation for Covered Contracts Related to Ukraine, Taiwan, and Israel, subparagraph (H)(1) of the class deviation requires written Congressional and DPC notification not later than seven days before contract award. <ph id="_Hlk155706537" class="- topic/ph ">Contracting officers shall use the sample format at AFARS 5153.303-12 for the notification.</ph>
      </p>
      <p rev="Revised January 12, 2024"
         outputclass="List1"
         class="- topic/p ">b. When using the authorities at paragraphs (B) thorough (G) of DPC Class Devaition 2024- O0005 – Temporary Authoritzation for Covered Contracts Related to Ukraine, Taiwan, and Israel, subparagraph (H)(2) of the class deviation requires written Congressional and DPC notification within seven days after contract award. Contracting officers shall use the sample format at AFARS 5153.303-13 for the notification.</p>
      <p rev="Revised January 12, 2024"
         outputclass="List1"
         class="- topic/p ">c. Contracting Officers shall submit congressional defense and DPC notification for HQDA review, coordination, and/or approval via ETMS2 to the ODASA(P) directorate listed at AFARS 5101.290(b)(1)(ii)(B) within one-day after award in order to meet the congressional defense committee requirement. c. Furthermore, to forecast workload requirements, the ODASA(P) will task Commands via the Enterprise Task Management Software Solution (ETMS2) bi-weekly to provide a listing of applicable actions. A template will be provided in ETMS2 to collect the following information for all applicable actions.</p>
      <p outputclass="List2"
         rev="Revised January 12, 2024"
         class="- topic/p ">(1) Program name. </p>
      <p outputclass="List2"
         rev="Revised January 12, 2024"
         class="- topic/p ">(2) Contract number, and modification number, if applicable. </p>
      <p outputclass="List2"
         rev="Revised January 12, 2024"
         class="- topic/p ">(3) Total estimated contract value (including options). </p>
      <p outputclass="List2"
         rev="Revised January 12, 2024"
         class="- topic/p ">(4) Contracting activity name and DoDAAC. </p>
      <p outputclass="List2"
         rev="Revised January 12, 2024"
         class="- topic/p ">(5) Contractor name and Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) code. </p>
      <p outputclass="List2"
         rev="Revised January 12, 2024"
         class="- topic/p ">(6) Quantities and/or period of performance. </p>
      <p outputclass="List2"
         rev="Revised January 12, 2024"
         class="- topic/p ">(7) Reason for using the authority. </p>
      <p outputclass="List2"
         rev="Revised January 12, 2024"
         class="- topic/p ">(8) Expected outcome of using the authority, including estimated reductions in schedule. </p>
      <p rev="Revised January 12, 2024" class="- topic/p "> Contracting Officers shall submit this data via ETMS2 as instructed.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
