<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="AFARS_5153.3032"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title outputclass="Heading 4" class="- topic/title ">
      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">5153.303-2</ph> Sample ordering officer appointment.</title>
   <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
      <p id="LdXuac" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">
         <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Subject:</b> Appointment of Ordering Officer</p>
      <p id="BLdMVg" outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">1. <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Appointment</i>
         </b>. Under AFARS 5101.602-2-92, you are appointed an Ordering Officer for the purposes set forth in paragraph 2. Your appointment becomes effective (enter date) and will remain effective, unless sooner revoked, until expiration of the contract(s) enumerated in paragraph 2 or until you are reassigned or your employment is terminated. You are responsible to and under the technical supervision of the chief of the (enter name of installation or activity) contracting office for your actions as an Ordering Officer.</p>
      <p id="AbfXqo" outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">2. <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Authority, Limitations and Requirements.</i>
         </b> Your appointment is subject to the use of the following method(s) of purchase, limitations and requirements:</p>
      <p id="Utmscj" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">a. Subject to your ensuring that local purchase authority exists for the transaction, you may make purchases using imprest funds for payments and using Standard Form 1165, Receipt for Cash - Subvouchers, provided all of the following conditions are satisfied:</p>
      <p id="OWkPzP" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) The aggregate amount of a purchase transaction is not in excess of $500 under emergency conditions. You may not split purchases to avoid this monetary limitation.</p>
      <p id="QMmcBE" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) The supplies or nonpersonal services are available for delivery within 60 calendar days, whether at the supplier’s place of business or at destination.</p>
      <p id="OwZnLw" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3) The purchase does not require detailed, technical specifications or technical inspection.</p>
      <p id="NgluRC" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">b. Subject to your ensuring that funds are available and that local purchase authority exists for the transaction, you may make purchases using Standard Form 44, Purchase Order -- Invoice -- Voucher, provided all of the following conditions are satisfied:</p>
      <p id="FYxchC" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) The aggregate amount of the purchase transaction is not in excess of $3,000. You may not split purchases to avoid this monetary limitation.</p>
      <p id="ThWLSy" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) Supplies or nonpersonal services are immediately available.</p>
      <p id="HrHYoz" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3) One delivery and one payment shall be made.</p>
      <p id="TZgmcV" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">c. Subject to your ensuring that funds are available and that local purchase authority exists for the transaction, you may place delivery orders (DD Form 1155) without monetary limitation, except that specified in individual contracts, against --</p>
      <p id="mcLRci" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) Brand Name contracts published in Defense Personnel Support Center Supply Bulletins in the SB 10-500 or SB 10-600 series;</p>
      <p id="oYknRn" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) Defense Personnel Support Center requirements contracts for subsistence items;</p>
      <p id="JQhWXr" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3) Defense Fuel Supply Center and Defense General Supply Center requirements contracts; and</p>
      <p id="aVbehm" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(4) The following indefinite delivery contracts, copies of which are attached: (List contracts by number and name of contractor.)</p>
      <p id="aXnUnJ" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">d. Subject to your ensuring that funds are available and that local purchase authority exists for the transaction, you may place Service Orders for Household Goods, DD Form 1164, against Commercial Warehousing and Related Services for Household Goods contracts for military and civilian personnel, subject to the criteria and procedures prescribed in DoD 4500.34-R, Chapter 2, and provided that no Service Order shall be in excess of $10,000.</p>
      <p id="QRIvgq" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">e. You are responsible for --</p>
      <p id="wdSEwl" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) Distributing and administering delivery orders that you place;</p>
      <p id="ZNlDSQ" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) Establishing controls necessary to ensure that all contract terms and conditions are met and that supplies or nonpersonal services ordered conform to contract requirements before acceptance is made or payment authorized, and</p>
      <p id="gXNdlw" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3) Reporting deficiencies in contractor performance promptly to the contracting officer who awarded the contract against which the delivery order was placed. You may not make any changes in the terms or conditions of any contracts against which you place delivery orders.</p>
      <p id="BlIJEF" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">f. The authority granted in this appointment may not be redelegated to any other person.</p>
      <p id="rYlcvf" outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">3. <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Standards of Conduct and Contracting Action Reporting Requirements.</i>
         </b>
      </p>
      <p id="RJhRWc" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">a. You shall comply with the standards of conduct prescribed in DoD 5500.7-R.</p>
      <p id="UFXzdY" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">b. You shall furnish the undersigned and the contracting officer to whom you are responsible such information as may be required for contracting action reporting purposes in the manner and the time specified.</p>
      <p id="ttKqhN" outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">4. <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Termination of Appointment.</i>
         </b>
      </p>
      <p id="zZkOxa" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">a. Your appointment may be revoked at any time by the undersigned authority or successor and shall be terminated in writing, except that no written termination of your appointment shall be made upon expiration or termination of contracts enumerated in paragraph 2.</p>
      <p id="jLgQvf" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">b. Should you be reassigned from your present position or separated from Government service while this appointment is in effect, you shall promptly notify the appointing authority in writing. Your appointment will be terminated in writing if you are reassigned; it shall automatically be terminated on the date you are separated from Government service, if it is not revoked sooner.</p>
      <p id="XeWJOh" outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">5. <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Acknowledgement of Receipt.</i>
         </b> You are required to acknowledge receipt of this appointment on the duplicate copy and return it to the contracting officer. Your signature also serves as certification that you have read and understand the contents of DoD 5500.7-R. The original copy of this designation should be retained for your file.</p>
      <p id="KELzZu" outputclass="Ctr" class="- topic/p "/>
      <p id="nZVPYv" outputclass="Ctr" class="- topic/p ">Signature Block Of</p>
      <p id="bRIwty" outputclass="Ctr" class="- topic/p ">Appointing Authority</p>
      <p id="owUPMQ" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Receipt of this appointment is acknowledged.</p>
      <table colsep="0" frame="none" rowsep="0" class="- topic/table ">
         <tgroup cols="2" class="- topic/tgroup ">
            <colspec colname="1"
                     colnum="1"
                     rowheader="headers"
                     class="- topic/colspec "/>
            <colspec colname="2"
                     colnum="2"
                     rowheader="headers"
                     class="- topic/colspec "/>
            <tbody class="- topic/tbody ">
               <row class="- topic/row ">
                  <entry class="- topic/entry ">Name: ___________________(Print or type)</entry>
                  <entry class="- topic/entry ">Signature: ____________________</entry>
               </row>
               <row class="- topic/row ">
                  <entry class="- topic/entry ">Title: ___________________</entry>
                  <entry class="- topic/entry ">Date: ________________________</entry>
               </row>
               <row class="- topic/row ">
                  <entry class="- topic/entry ">Rank/Grade: ___________________</entry>
                  <entry class="- topic/entry ">Telephone: ___________________</entry>
               </row>
            </tbody>
         </tgroup>
      </table>
   </conbody>
</concept>
