<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_6-2">
    <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">6-2.</ph> GPC Purchasing Process</title>
    <conbody>
        <p>Cardholders should follow the steps in Table 6-1 when purchasing
            items or services within the MPT.</p>
        <p id="Toc101947056">Table 6-1: Cardholder Micro-purchase Steps</p>
        <table>
            <tgroup cols="3">
                <colspec colnum="1" colwidth="0.2*" colname="col1"/>
                <colspec colnum="2" colwidth="1.2*" colname="col2"/>
                <colspec colnum="3" colwidth="1.5*" colname="col3"/>
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Step</entry>
                        <entry>Action</entry>
                        <entry>Details</entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry>1</entry>
                        <entry>Receive and screen Purchase Request and Approval
                            (PR&amp;A) document from requiring activity.</entry>
                        <entry>Ensure PR&amp;A identifies a legitimate
                            government need; market research performed; any
                            recommended vendors; approvals obtained (e.g., APO,
                            BO); and consideration of required sources.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>2</entry>
                        <entry>CH must verify BO signs the form and approves the
                            purchase prior to the purchase.</entry>
                        <entry>The BO will verify funding availability with the
                            Resource Manager prior to signing the form.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>3</entry>
                        <entry>Verify appropriate procurement method. If GPC is
                            not the appropriate method, return the form to the
                            requiring activity with the recommendation on the
                            proper procurement method to be used.</entry>
                        <entry>Consider funding type and funding amount. Confirm
                            whether the requested item/service is authorized to
                            buy with GPC. Confirm that the purchase is within
                            the CH’s delegation of authority.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>4</entry>
                        <entry>Determine the appropriate vendor.</entry>
                        <entry>Check mandatory sources first, depending on the
                            type of item/service. See Chapter 9. If mandatory
                            sources cannot fulfill the request, check
                            recommended Government sources (GSA, FedMall) and
                            commercial sources. If buying from a commercial
                            source, include a brief justification in the
                            purchase file. Ensure to rotate commercial
                            sources.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>5</entry>
                        <entry>Review the quote. Inform the vendor that the
                            purchase is tax exempt.</entry>
                        <entry>Confirm whether the supplies/services description
                            meets the minimum customer needs and is readily
                            available. Check quote for sales tax; if identified,
                            ask vendor to remove tax. Review quote for terms and
                            conditions. Provide Government shipping
                            details.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>6</entry>
                        <entry>Confirm if the vendor is 889 compliant. Check
                            Sam.gov or use 889 robotic process automation (RPA)
                            email.</entry>
                        <entry>Can also use completed 889 forms from a local
                            share site, if available. If vendor is not on
                            SAM.gov, ask vendor to complete an 889 form. If
                            vendor is not compliant, find another
                            vendor.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>7</entry>
                        <entry>Place the order.</entry>
                        <entry>Make purchase over phone, in person, internet, or
                            email.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>8</entry>
                        <entry>Record the item in the Purchase Log.</entry>
                        <entry>In the bank’s EAS (Transaction Management) or per
                            local agency guidance.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>9</entry>
                        <entry>Receive the items/services. Perform independent
                            receipt and acceptance.</entry>
                        <entry>Ensure that a Government employee (not the CH)
                            signs and dates the invoice/receipt to confirm
                            delivery/completion of work. Provide a copy of the
                            receipt to the Accountable Property Officer (APO)
                            within 5 business days, when applicable.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>10</entry>
                        <entry>Match the transaction and upload supporting
                            documentation into the bank’s EAS. Approve statement
                            in EAS at the end of each billing cycle.</entry>
                        <entry>When matching orders, complete all required
                            fields (e.g., 889 Designation, Emergency Type
                            Operation). Upload supporting documentation
                            identified in 6-2.e. below.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>11</entry>
                        <entry>Resolve any disputes. If unable to resolve with
                            vendor, submit a dispute in the bank’s EAS.</entry>
                        <entry>Contact vendor directly to resolve minor issues,
                            such as shipping costs or sales tax. Ensure disputes
                            in EAS are exercised no later than <b>90 days</b>
                            after the transaction’s posting.</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. Personnel requiring supplies/services must provide written
            requests to the CH. Upon receipt of a purchase request, the CH
            should identify if the requirement can be made within the scope of
            the GPC program. Cardholders must ensure the requirement is a
            legitimate government need and determine if the requirement can be
            met within their credit limits.</p>
        <p id="b_Mandatory_Determine_whether_the_requ" outputclass="List1">b. The BO must verify
            availability of funds at the time of each purchase. No Government
            employee may create or authorize an obligation in excess of
            available funds or in advance of appropriations.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. Only the CH is authorized to make the purchase - no exceptions.
            CHs cannot re-delegate their authority. Purchases can be made in
            person or by telephone, internet or email. Cardholders must maintain
            card security throughout the buying process. Invoices must be in
            English.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>Shipping</b>. CHs are unauthorized to ship to personal
            residences or other commercial addresses without approval from Level
            3 A/OPC. For OCONUS purchases, CHs should coordinate with their
            local logistics office to determine whether commercial shipment is
            available for purchases outside the U.S.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. <b>Purchase File Documentation</b>. Per DOD Charge Card Guidebook paragraph A.1.14
            “GPC Record Retention” and <xref href="http://comptroller.defense.gov/Portals/45/documents/fmr/Volume_10.pdf"
               format="html"
               scope="external">DoD FMR Volume 10, Chapter 23, Paragraph
            230307</xref> - CHs must document and upload transaction supporting
            documentation using the servicing bank’s EAS, Transaction Management
            - Attachment function. CHs must upload documentation throughout the
            billing cycle to assist BOs, A/OPCs, and auditors in completing
            transaction reviews per DoD SmartPay® 3 Transition Memorandum #6.
            CHs will attach documents for each billing cycle before approving
            their statement. BOs should review the transaction documentation
            prior to certifying the managing account. Required file
            documentation includes but is not limited to the following:</p>
        <p>1) Approved Purchase Request Document</p>
        <p>2) Special approvals (e.g., ITAS Waiver Approvals, Statement of
            Non-Availability (SONA), Capability Requirement (CAPR), legal)</p>
        <p>3) 889 Representation</p>
        <p>4) Order confirmations</p>
        <p>5) Itemized receipts</p>
        <p>6) Quotes and invoices, if applicable</p>
        <p>7) Documentation showing independent receipt and acceptance</p>
        <p>8) Receiving reports or other proof of delivery</p>
        <p>9) For training purchases, SF 182 (or equivalent) and proof of class
            completion, with Personally Identifiable Information (PII)
            redacted</p>
        <p>10) APO approval</p>
        <p>11) Other local agency requirements</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">f. The Accountable Property Officer (APO) determines if the goods
            purchased will be placed on APO records in accordance with AR 710-2.
            Cardholders are required to provide receipts of accountable goods to
            the APO within 5 business days of obtaining the receipt.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">g. <b>Independent Receipt and Acceptance</b>. CHs will obtain
            independent receipt and acceptance for all purchases. The CH will
            ensure receipt and acceptance is properly performed and confirmed
            through proper documentation by an individual other than the CH. The
            person verifying receipt must sign, date, and write "received" on
            the merchant’s receipt, packing slip, invoice, or equivalent
            document. Email confirmation is also acceptable. The individual
            verifying receipt may be the CH’s supervisor or other designated
            individual, as appropriate. CHs must upload the signed document or
            email confirmation in the servicing bank’s EAS. Shipping items to a
            home or alternative work address requires approval documentation
            from the Level 3 A/OPC in the purchase file. The BO verifies the
            existence of receipt and acceptance documentation during
            reconciliation of the billing statement.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">h. <b>File Retention</b>. If the complete file documentation is
            uploaded in the bank’s EAS, CHs are not required to maintain a
            duplicate hardcopy or electronic file. The servicing bank will
            retain all uploaded files for the required timeframe. BOs are
            responsible for ensuring that CHs upload documentation. BOs must
            retain existing hardcopy files for six years in accordance with FAR
            Part 4 that are not uploaded into the bank’s EAS.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
