<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "/home/ec2-user/ditatool/dita-ot-2.5.4/plugins/org.oasis-open.dita.v1_3/dtd/technicalContent/dtd/ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_3-16">
   <title outputclass="Heading 2">
      <ph props="autonumber">3-16.</ph> Rebates/Credits</title>
   <conbody>
      <p id="hSgyck" outputclass="Normal">a. Rebates are posted as credits against billing statements and applied at the billing statement level unless specified otherwise by the Level 2 A/OPC. Rebates are automatically assigned to the default line of accounting (LOA) on the billing statement. BOs should reallocate the rebates across various LOAs (of the same appropriation) to the extent that no single LOA has a credit balance. Under no circumstance will the CH retain gift checks, vendor rebates or other purchase incentives that can be converted to personal use. If received, these items must be turned over to the U.S. Treasury.</p>
      <p id="zyMrfm" outputclass="Normal">b. Unless specific authority exists allowing rebates to be used for other purposes, rebates must be returned to the appropriation or account from which they were expended, and can be used for any legitimate purchase by the appropriation or account to which they were returned, or as otherwise authorized by statute.</p>
      <p id="MiokhY">c. Credit transactions are posted as credits against billing statements, applied at the billing statement level. When a closed account carries a credit balance the amount shall be sent via check to the Level 4 A/OPC. The check will be addressed to US Government or US Treasury. The Level 4 A/OPC shall work with his/her RM in identifying an account and in determining how the credit is distributed within the installation.</p>
      <p id="rABkRd" outputclass="Normal">d. Reimbursements such as rebates, merchant credits, or other credits attributable to accounts closed during the quarter or accounts not having enough purchases to offset the credit, require the Servicing Bank to issue quarterly checks to the Level 4 A/OPC. Merchant credits must be applied back to the funding appropriation. Rebates must be used in the fiscal year they are received.</p>
      <p id="hTjmgr" outputclass="Normal">e. Each Level 4 A/OPC is directed to deliver all reimbursement check(s) to their RM within five (5) days of receipt, retain a copy of each reimbursement check(s), and obtain the RM's signature acknowledging their receipt and acceptance of the reimbursement check(s). The CH, BO, and RM should have a process to ensure adequate controls are in place to track credits and rebates. Questions related to reimbursements in the form of a rebate, merchant credit, or other credit should be directed to your local RM. CHs must forward their monthly cardholder statement to the BO with the appropriate supporting documentation, within 5 working days, to maximize rebates and minimize prompt payment penalties.</p>
      <p id="qzjspf" outputclass="Normal">f. Rebate policy guidance is available in the DOD FMR Volume 10 Chapter 2, OMB Circular A-123 Appendix B Chapter 7, and DOD Charge Card Guidebook Appendix K paragraph 13.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
