<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_6-1">
   <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">6-1.</ph> Procurement Transactions</title>
   <conbody>
      <p outputclass="List1">a. Purchases below the MPT are exempt from the Competition in Contracting
Act, Buy American Act, Economy Act, Service Contract Labor Standards Act, Wage
Rates Requirements Act, and the Small Business Set-Aside Program. Nothing in
this chapter exempts a cardholder from using the proper contracting channels
when making purchases exceeding the MPT.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">b. Requiring activities must perform acquisition planning to identify
procurement needs; consider strategic sourcing vehicles (e.g., BPAs, CHESS,
GSA); and initiate procurement actions with sufficient lead time to buy
appropriate products at the right price from the right suppliers in a timely
manner. Requirements and logistics personnel should avoid issuing requirements
on an urgent basis or with unrealistic delivery or performance schedules, since
it generally restricts competition and increases prices. Ordering from existing
contracts (e.g., BPAs, CHESS, or GSA FSS) can only be done by an appointed
ordering official, including purchases below the MPT.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">c. Purchase requirements exceeding the MPTs or delegations of authority
established in Tables 1-2 and 1-3 must be referred to a contracting office.
Splitting requirements into smaller parts to avoid formal contracting
procedures, competition requirements, or to keep spending limitations under the
MPT is prohibited. The GPC may be used for non-personal recurring services
performed at regular intervals; however, recurring service requirements
estimated to exceed the MPT per FY are not authorized.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">d. Cardholders must use the mandatory sources identified in Chapter 9 before
deciding to use commercial sources. GPC micro-purchases should be distributed
equitably among qualified suppliers, with special consideration paid to
supporting the installation AbilityOne Base Supply Center, and local, small, and
small disadvantaged businesses.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">e. Cardholders are responsible for procuring green products and services
under the Green Procurement Program as prescribed by Executive Order 13834 and
by DoD and Army policies. Green procurement applies to the purchase of recovered
materials, energy and water efficient products, alternative fuels and fuel
efficiency, bio-based products, non-ozone depleting substances, environmentally
preferable products and services, and toxic and hazardous chemicals. The
following are mandatory Green Procurement purchases: paper, toner, office
products, office recycle containers, and office trash cans. The following are
the only exceptions to purchasing green products and services: the pricing is
considered unreasonable; item/service does not meet reasonable standards; or
item/service will not meet the time frame needed. Exceptions must be documented.
Recommended sources for green products are AbilityOne, FedMall, and GSA
Advantage.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">f. <b>OCONUS Units</b>. For the use of the GPC outside the U.S., CHs must
follow policy in accordance with DFARS 213.301(2). To ensure the CH does not
exceed $25,000 for OCONUS purchases, the total purchase price must include the
currency conversion rate prior to making the purchase. If a CH makes a purchase
from an OCONUS location for use OCONUS and the vendor is located in the U.S.,
this would be considered a reach-back purchase and the MPT for a reach-back
purchase is $10,000. Any reach-back purchase over $10,000 is subject to
simplified acquisition procedures and should be sent to the contracting office
to make the purchase.</p>
      <p id="OLE_LINK21" outputclass="List1">g. For purchases made in the Contiguous United States (CONUS)
for use overseas, the CH must contact their local Director of Logistics Traffic
Management Office for assistance regarding transportation and packaging
requirements and/or instructions prior to contacting the vendor. CHs must ensure
the final price includes all costs associated with the mode of transportation
and packaging selected to the destination country, customs import duties, and
any other charges that may accrue. See DoD Directive 4500.54-E, DoD Foreign
Clearance Program for compliance with host nation customs requirements.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">h. <b>OCONUS Value-Added Tax (VAT) Forms</b>. The cost of the VAT can be
charged on the GPC. Cardholders must contact their AOPC for local guidance and
procedures involving the usage of the VAT form. The following VAT forms are
provided on the GPC PAM website for information purposes only:</p>
      <p>1) <xref href="https://www.companyformationbelgium.com/vat-registration-belgium"
               format="html"
               scope="external">Belgium VAT</xref> 
      </p>
      <p>2) <xref href="http://abwicklungsschein.de/en/"
               format="html"
               scope="external">Germany VAT</xref> 
      </p>
      <p>3) Republic of Korea VAT</p>
      <p>4) For all other countries, contact the local Morale, Welfare and Recreation
(MWR) office.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">i. <b>Terms and Conditions</b>. Cardholders do not have the authority to
approve or sign written vendor terms and conditions. Cardholders will consult
their A/OPC or local legal office for additional guidance.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">j. <b>Convenience Check Accounts</b>. The management controls, procedures,
and restrictions included in this regulation also apply to the use of
convenience checking accounts. Convenience checks are an alternative only when
the GPC is not feasible and the activity has evaluated all alternatives and
determined the checks as the most advantageous. Before a check is issued, the
requiring organization must document their effort to find a merchant that
accepts the GPC. Convenience checks must not be used for more than one half of
the MPT per Public Law 115-91. See Chapter 10.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">k. <b>GPC Surveillance Requirements</b>. Oversight of the GPC program will
follow procedures outlined in <xref href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/asda/dpc/ce/pc/smart-pay.html#sp36"
               format="html"
               scope="external">Department of Defense SmartPay3 Government-wide Commercial
Purchase Card Policies, procedures and Tools – SP3 Transition Memo
#6</xref>.</p>
      <p id="Toc101163531"/>
   </conbody>
</concept>
