<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_10-1">
   <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">10-1.</ph> Policy and Use</title>
   <conbody>
      <p outputclass="List1">a. Convenience checks provide activities with the flexibility to issue checks
for payment of supplies and services to support mission needs when the vendor
doesn’t accept payment by GPC. Convenience checks may be used for purchases when
supplies or service are available for delivery or completion within 15 days,
whether at the contractor’s place of business or at destination.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">b. DoD policy has a goal to decrease convenience check usage on an annual
basis. The Army does not receive rebates or retain dispute rights on convenience
check purchases. The authority to maintain a convenience check account will be
justified on an individual organization basis and controlled and monitored by
the organization’s CCO. The number of convenience check accounts per
installation must be kept to a minimum. Convenience check accounts are available
only to organizations that maintain active GPC accounts in good standing.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">c. Convenience checks should only be used when the vendor does not accept the
GPC. Convenience checks may not be used to avoid the normal GPC payment process.
Before a check is issued, the paying agency must make every effort to use the
GPC, including making maximum efforts to find and use merchants that accept the
GPC.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>Restrictions</b>.</p>
      <p>1) Checkwriters must not use checks for employee reimbursements, cash
advances, cash awards, travel-related transportation payments, or meals.</p>
      <p>2) Convenience check purchases must not require detailed specifications or an
inspection report.</p>
      <p>3) Convenience checks should not be used for recurring payments.</p>
      <p>4) Convenience checks must not be used as a method of payment against
existing contract instruments.</p>
      <p>5) Checks will not be issued as an “exchange-for-cash” vehicle to establish
cash funds. If merchants issue credits or refunds by cash or check, the funds
must be immediately credited to the account against which the purchase was
originally made.</p>
      <p>6) The same purchase prohibitions that apply to the GPC apply to convenience
checks.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">e. <b>Micro-purchase Threshold</b>. The MPTs for convenience checks are half
of the open market and contingency MPTs. See Table 1-2. Splitting payments
across multiple checks is prohibited if the total requirement will exceed the
applicable convenience check MPT. Checkwriters may use checks for purchases in
support of declared contingency events up to the applicable convenience check
MPT.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">f. <b>Processing Fee</b>. Convenience checks should be written for the exact
payment amount. The payment amount for a check does not include the servicing
bank’s administrative processing fee. The check processing fee is added by the
servicing bank during processing of the transaction, and the addition of the
processing fee is not considered a split requirement. Checkwriters should ensure
that the total funds obligated include both the payment amount and the
processing fee. The convenience check MPT is for the payment amount of the good
or service, which does not include the processing fee (e.g., a check may be
written up to $5,000; the processing fee is accounted for separately and is
charged separately on the billing statement).</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">g. <b>Security and Oversight</b>. Convenience checks are negotiable
instruments and must be stored in a locked container, such as a safe or locking
filing cabinet. Checks must be accounted for appropriately to prevent loss,
theft, or potential forgery. Convenience check accounts must be reviewed
annually by a disinterested party and not the A/OPC.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">h. Convenience checks are pre-numbered, and their use is controlled with a
separate convenience check purchase log for each account. Check purchases are
reconciled just as other GPC transactions, as a part of the monthly statement
billing cycle in the servicing bank’s EAS. Checkwriters must retain copies of
voided checks through the carbon copy or photocopy the original check as a part
of their file documentation.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">i. <b>Disputes</b>. The normal GPC dispute process is not applicable to
convenience checks. Concerns over a check purchase must be resolved directly
with the merchant. The checkwriter is responsible for securing credits or
resolving problems with the merchant. Each organization is responsible for all
checks written on an account, unless it is determined fraud is involved. In some
cases, payments can be stopped on a convenience check that has been written if
the check has not yet been posted to an account. To stop payment on a check, the
checkwriter must call the servicing bank’s customer service department to
receive instructions on processing the action.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
