<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "/home/ec2-user/ditatool/dita-ot-2.5.4/plugins/org.oasis-open.dita.v1_3/dtd/technicalContent/dtd/ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE-Appendix-H">
   <title outputclass="1 Heading">
      <ph props="autonumber">Appendix H</ph>: Semi–Annual Surveillance Report Template</title>
   <conbody>
      <p id="SNyKNZ" outputclass="Normal">MEMORANDUM FOR ARMY LEVEL II A/OPC <i>
            <u>insert Level 2 A/OPC</u>
         </i>, HQ, Department of the Army, ATTN: DASA(P) (SAAL-PB), 2800 Crystal Drive, Arlington,
         VA 22202.</p>
      <p id="XQjTjW" outputclass="Normal">SUBJECT: Semi-Annual Surveillance Report for <i>
            <u>insert</u>
         </i>
         <i>
            <u>agency,</u>
         </i> Government Purchase Card Program (GPC) <i>
            <u>insert period</u>
         </i> Quarter Fiscal Year <i>
            <u>insert year</u>
         </i>.</p>
      <p id="hcoubd" outputclass="List1">ENCLS: (A) Department of Defense Purchase Card Review
         Checklist and Certification, Department of the Army Government Purchase Card Operating
         Procedures (AGPCOP) 22 July 2015, Appendix D</p>
      <p id="pczOiS" outputclass="List4">(B) Formal Reporting Requirements, AGPCOP Appendix G</p>
      <p id="hxkhCC" outputclass="Normal">1. Subject report is provided in accordance with AGPCOP,
         22 July 2015, Chapter 4-2 Program Oversight and Reviews. The following provides an analysis
         and summary of findings identified in Enclosures (A) and (B) for <i>
            <u>insert agency</u>
         </i>. The subject report explains GPC Program systemic weaknesses, corrective actions, and
         lessons learned. The review was conducted by <i>
            <u>insert reviewer name</u>
         </i> for the period <i>
            <u>insert time period</u>
         </i>.</p>
      <p id="fnZeXp">2. <u>Formal Reporting Requirements:</u>
         <i>Address reporting requirements found in Enclosure</i>
      </p>
      <p id="wp4lodz">
         <i>(B).</i>
         <b>
            <i>Analysis should include the following:</i>
         </b>
      </p>
      <ul>
         <li id="DqFUYA">
            <p id="BRBWVy">
               <i>Span of Control Waivers (</i>
               <i>BO:A</i>
               <i>/OPC=7:1, A/OPC:BO=300:1; Is justification sufficient/approved for increased span
                  of control?</i>
            </p>
         </li>
         <li id="jCeqcs">
            <p id="tjggXS">
               <i>Accounts inactive &gt; 3 months-justification sufficient?</i>
            </p>
         </li>
         <li id="TGcRyE">
            <p id="jZoqgv">
               <i>Number</i>
               <i>of BO accounts inspected, number of transactions reviewed for each BO, number of
                  BO accounts reviewed during prior reporting period</i>
            </p>
         </li>
         <li id="WxMVnS">
            <p id="ftTtUM">
               <i>Compliant with 100% yearly BO review?</i>
            </p>
         </li>
         <li id="PkBkGC">
            <p id="JyGxLz">
               <i>Number of CH accounts inspected, number of transactions reviewed for each CH (1
                  per CH preferred/6% sample size is DoD standard)</i>
            </p>
         </li>
         <li id="oBKqTS">
            <p id="tKGUNi">
               <i>Method of compliance review for BO and CH (PCOLS, Bank’s EAS, in person, remotely,
                  or electronically)</i>
            </p>
         </li>
         <li id="CTZrhi">
            <p id="WwTOLN">
               <i>Mandatory transaction log review of new CHs within initial 4 months of CH
                  appointment?</i>
            </p>
         </li>
         <li id="IRFhao">
            <p id="JSUuUV">
               <i>What metrics are being utilized to manage your GPC Program (</i>
               <i>i.e.</i>
               <i>Delinquency (0.75), Financial Exposure)?</i>
            </p>
         </li>
      </ul>
      <p id="zUrsnJ">Appendix H: Semi-Annual Surveillance Report Template (continued)</p>
      <p id="IENJDP" outputclass="Normal">3. <u>Appointment and Account Issuance and Maintenance</u>
         <u>for A/OPCs, BOs, and CHs:</u>
         <i> Address Section A, 1-14 of Enclosure (A).</i>
         <b>
            <i> In addition to</i>
         </b>
         <i> items on the checklist, address the following:</i>
      </p>
      <ul>
         <li id="gwthht">
            <p id="BzNZPf">
               <i>Level 3 and 4 A/OPC training requirement</i>
            </p>
         </li>
         <li id="oOXOhX">
            <p id="FIJzDd">
               <i>Is Level 4 A/OPC certified at Level II in Contracting or Purchasing or will
                  individual have acquired the certification within 24 months of appointment?</i>
            </p>
         </li>
         <li id="cdbcwP">
            <p id="vLULiB">
               <i>Organization’s Delegation of Authority (i.e. SCO</i>
               <ph outputclass="symbol">?</ph>
               <i>CCO, SCO</i>
               <ph outputclass="symbol">?</ph>
               <i>Level III A/OPC and Alternate, CCO</i>
               <ph outputclass="symbol">?</ph>
               <i>Level 4 A/OPC and Alternate, Level 4 A/OPC or CCO</i>
               <ph outputclass="symbol">?</ph>
               <i>BO and CH)</i>
            </p>
         </li>
         <li id="BqqBVn">
            <p id="sMroBZ">
               <i>Are appointment letters current?</i>
            </p>
         </li>
      </ul>
      <p id="uPsYRM">4. <u>GPC Usage Requirements:</u>
         <i>Address Section B, 1-39 of Enclosure (A).</i>
         <b>
            <i> In addition to</i>
         </b>
         <i> items on the checklist, address the following:</i>
      </p>
      <ul>
         <li id="Xpepmf">
            <p id="eizeJs">
               <i>Adherence to GPC Program requirements: transaction activity; systemic problems,
                  delinquencies and corrective action, abuse, or fraud; summary of adverse actions
                  (type and number) against the responsible individual; formal reports issued to the
                  Chief of the Contracting Office (CCO)</i>
            </p>
         </li>
         <li id="flwUGT">
            <p id="wfTjEO">
               <i>Incidents of</i>
               <i>splitting purchases</i>
               <i>to override purchase threshold</i>
            </p>
         </li>
         <li id="chVEJN">
            <p id="TYHWkE">
               <i>Incidents of “After the fact” buys</i>
            </p>
         </li>
         <li id="nGUGGR">
            <p id="xcxGpA">
               <i>Rotating sources in order to give vendors a fair opportunity</i>
            </p>
         </li>
         <li id="oEhaGA">
            <p id="rbdLfp">
               <i>Use of mandatory sources, specifically CHESS,</i>
               <i>AbilityOne</i>
               <i>, FSSI BPAs on DoD EMALL Corridor</i>
            </p>
         </li>
         <li id="lhrOrs">
            <p id="RaqZqA">
               <i>Credits and rebates-were they adequately accounted for</i>
            </p>
         </li>
         <li id="qYqJUD">
            <p id="PUSARj">
               <i>What Strategic Sourcing initiatives are in place?</i>
            </p>
         </li>
      </ul>
      <p id="LEjfwJ" outputclass="Normal">5. <u>Documentation Requirements:</u>
         <i>Address Section C, 1-14 of Enclosure (A).</i>
         <b>
            <i> In addition to</i>
         </b>
         <i> items on the checklist, address the following:</i>
      </p>
      <ul>
         <li id="ipCbcm">
            <p id="aAEahq">
               <i>File Documentation (hard copy)- Does Level 4 A/OPC file contain purchase card applications and approvals, account
                  maintenance, CH and BO delegation of appointment letters, ethics and training
                  certifications, results of annual reviews?</i>
            </p>
         </li>
         <li id="PRoBTs">
            <p id="YVYLbz">
               <i>Do BO files contain hard copy CH statements, original receipts, invoices, logs,
                  approvals, supporting documentation, CH delegation of authority letters, BO
                  appointment letters?</i>
            </p>
         </li>
         <li id="jPmDtj">
            <p id="xwVSyB">
               <i>Do CH files contain purchase logs, statements of record, billing statements,
                  documentation supporting purchase (fair and reasonable, competition, legitimate
                  need, receipt and acceptance), appointment letter, training certificates?</i>
            </p>
         </li>
      </ul>
      <p id="sKeVZP">Appendix H: Semi-Annual Surveillance Report Template (continued)</p>
      <p id="ijNzAN" outputclass="Normal">6. <u>Processing Requirements:</u>
         <i>Address Section D, 1-3 of Enclosure (A).</i>
         <b>
            <i> In addition to</i>
         </b>
         <i> items on the checklist, address the following:</i>
      </p>
      <p id="EIMjpa" outputclass="Normal">
         <i>Reconciliation and certification of invoice payments-review and reconciliation of CH
            statement against receipt documentation within 5 days; prior bills paid; purchases
            necessary, mission essential, meet minimum need of the Government; contains valid line
            of accounting</i>
      </p>
      <p id="mLTPdv" outputclass="Normal">7. <u>Financial Requirements:</u>
         <i>Address Section E, 1-2 of Enclosure (A).</i>
      </p>
      <p id="caAQBr" outputclass="Normal">8. <u>Convenience Check Writer Requirements:</u>
         <i>Address Section F, 1-10 of Enclosure (A).</i>
      </p>
      <p id="QCxfaT" outputclass="Normal">9. <u>GPC Accounts Used to Place Orders by Ordering
            Officer:</u> A<i>ddress Section G, 1-9 of Enclosure (A).</i>
      </p>
      <p id="PbQNjT" outputclass="Normal">10. <u>Contract Payment Requirements:</u>
         <i>Address Section H, 1-10 of Enclosure (A).</i>
      </p>
      <p id="RjgkWQ" outputclass="Normal">11. <u>Payments to Document and Automation Production
            Services (DAPS) or Other Government Entities:</u> A<i>ddress Section I, 1-4 of Enclosure
            (A).</i>
      </p>
      <p id="wYvHbg" outputclass="Normal">12. <u>Training Payments:</u>
         <i>Address Section J, 1-7 of Enclosure (A).</i>
      </p>
      <p id="joChxn" outputclass="Normal">13. <u>Previous Findings:</u>
         <i>Address adverse findings from previous quarterly reviews, corrective actions taken, and
            results.</i>
      </p>
      <p id="EMTTLR" outputclass="Normal">14. <u>Surveillance Reporting:</u>
         <i>Have all Level 4 A/OPCs received proper training and oversight for conducting
            surveillance? How is information transferred from Level 3 A/OPC to Level 4 A/OPCs; how
            is information packaged and presented to Level 2 A/OPC? To what extent is PCOLS used to
            collect surveillance data. What tools within PCOLS were utilized (EMMA, AIM, DM, Risk
            Assessment)?</i>
      </p>
      <p id="krXpCA" outputclass="Normal">15. <u>Program Summary:</u>
         <i>Summarize repetitive or systemic weaknesses at the individual command and organizational
            level. What corrective actions will be taken and how will corrective actions be
            tracked?</i>
      </p>
      <p id="CIbEuD" outputclass="Normal">16. <u>Exceptional Performance:</u>
         <i>Identify examples of exceptional GPC programs or performance and/or lessons learned.</i>
      </p>
      <p id="afGvVN" outputclass="Normal">17. Any questions may be directed to the undersigned at <i>
            <u>insert</u>
         </i>
         <i>
            <u> Level 3 A/OPC</u>
         </i> at <i>
            <u>(XXX)</u>
         </i>
         <i>XXX-XXXX</i>.</p>
      <p id="bLedHT" outputclass="normal Right">Level 3 Agency/Organizational Coordinator</p>
      <p id="dYSHfM" outputclass="normal Right">
         <i>Insert A/OPC Signature</i>
      </p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
