<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_APPENDIX-AA_3_2">
      <title>3.2 <ph id="Toc178607313"/>Documentation of Initial Evaluation
Results</title>
      <conbody>

        <p>See Army template source selection documents located in PAM -
Template Library <xref format="html"
               href="https://spcs3.kc.army.mil/asaalt/procurement/SitePages/NewTemplates.aspx"
               scope="external">https://spcs3.kc.army.mil/asaalt/procurement/SitePages/NewTemplates.aspx</xref>).</p>
        <p>Following initial evaluations and all required reviews (see DoD
Source Selection Procedures 3.2.1), award will either be made
without discussions or with discussions (see DoD Source Selection
Procedures 3.2.2 and 3.2.3).</p>
        <p>
          <b>
            <u>Types of Exchanges</u>
          </b>
        </p>
        <p>After receipt of proposals, there are three types of exchanges
that may occur between the government and offerors --
clarifications, communications, and negotiations / discussions.
When they occur, their purpose and scope, and whether offerors are
allowed to revise their proposals as a result of the exchanges are
different for each.</p>
        <p>Clarifications may only be used when an award will be made
without discussions (see FAR 15.306(a)(1) and DoD Source Selection
Procedures 3.3.1).</p>
        <p>Communications (see FAR 15.306(b) and DoD Source Selection
Procedures 3.5.2) and discussions (see FAR 15.306(b) and DoD Source
Selection Procedures 3.5) are used when a competitive range will be
established. <b>
            <i>All SSEB exchanges must be accomplished
through the use of evaluation notifications
(ENs)</i>
          </b>.</p>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="4">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="0.5*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="0.9*"/>
            <colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" colwidth="1.3*"/>
            <colspec colname="col4" colnum="4" colwidth="1.3*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                  <entry/>
                  <entry>
                     <b>Clarifications</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <b>Communications</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <b>Negotiations/Discussions</b>
                  </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>
                     <b>When They Occur</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p>Limited exchanges, between the government and offerors
<b>when award WITHOUT discussions</b> is
contemplated.</p>
                     <p>
                        <b>NOTE:</b> Award may be made without discussions if
the solicitation announces that the government intends to evaluate
proposals and make award without discussions. <b>See section
3.3 for acquisitions with an estimated value over
$100M.</b>
                     </p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p>After receipt of proposals, leading to the establishment of the
competitive range of offerors with which the government intends to
conduct discussions.</p>
                     <p>May only be held with those offerors (other than offerors under
FAR 15.306(b)(1)(i)) whose exclusion from the competitive range is
uncertain.</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p>After establishing the competitive range</p>
                     <p>
                        <b>NOTE</b>: The term “negotiations”
applies to both competitive and non-competitive acquisitions. In
competitive acquisitions, negotiations are also called
discussions.</p>
                  </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>
                     <b>Scope of the Exchanges</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>Most limited of the three types of exchanges. Clarifications are
not required to be held with all offerors.</entry>
                  <entry>Limited; similar to fact finding</entry>
                  <entry>Most detailed and extensive. When conducting discussions with
one offeror must conduct with all offerors in the competitive
range.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>
                     <b>Purpose</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>To clarify certain aspects of proposals</entry>
                  <entry>To enhance the government’s understanding of the proposal
by addressing issues that must be explored to allow a reasonable
interpretation of the offeror’s proposal to determine whether
a proposal should be placed in the competitive range</entry>
                  <entry>To allow the offeror an opportunity to revise its proposal so
that the government obtains the best value, based on the
requirement and applicable evaluation factors</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>
                     <b>Examples of Topics of Exchanges</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p> Relevance of an offeror’s past performance</p>
                     <p> Adverse past performance information</p>
                     <p> Resolution of minor or clerical errors</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p> Address issues that must be explored to determine
whether a proposal should be placed in the competitive range</p>
                     <p> Ambiguities or other concerns (e.g., perceived
deficiencies, weaknesses, errors, omissions, or mistakes)</p>
                     <p> Relevance of an offeror’s past performance</p>
                     <p> Adverse past performance information</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p>Examples of potential discussion topics include the
identification of all evaluated deficiencies, significant
weaknesses, weaknesses, and any adverse past performance
information to which the offeror has not yet had an opportunity to
respond.</p>
                     <p>Additionally, it is a best practice to identify strengths and
significant strengths to ensure that the offeror does not remove
when submitting the FPR.</p>
                     <p>Finally, the PCO may inform the Offeror that its price is too
low or too high with the basis of these conclusions.</p>
                  </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>
                     <b>Are Resultant Proposal Revisions Allowed?</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>No</entry>
                  <entry>No</entry>
                  <entry>Yes</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p>
          <i>Figure 3-3: Comparison of Types of Exchanges (After Receipt
of Proposals</i>
        </p>
        <p>
          <b>
            <u>Conducting Exchanges with Offerors</u>
          </b>
        </p>
        <p>The PCO controls all exchanges with offerors. Before
participating in any exchanges, the PCO shall review the ground
rules with the team members. Exchanges may be conducted in-person,
telephonically, via videoconference, or via written
correspondence.</p>
        <p>During exchanges with offerors, the government may not:</p>
        <p> Favor one offeror over another;</p>
        <p> Reveal an offeror’s technical solution to another
offeror;</p>
        <p> Reveal an offeror’s price to another offeror
without that offeror’s permission;</p>
        <p> Knowingly disclose source selection information, or
reveal the name of individuals providing past performance
information;</p>
        <p> Reveal source selection information in violation of
statutory and regulatory requirements.</p>
        <p id="Toc307819146"/>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
