<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_15-1">
   <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">15-1.</ph> Contract Payments</title>
   <conbody>
      <p outputclass="List1">a. Given the continuing evolution of electronic payment capabilities, the
Army must periodically perform reviews of existing payment practices to optimize
effectiveness. These reviews should consider factors such as ease of use,
opportunities to generate revenue from payment processes ("refunds"), price
discounts for faster vendor payment, transaction fees, transaction data, and
internal controls.</p>
      <p id="Hlk112839449" outputclass="List1">b. The GPC may be used as a payment method on contracts. See
FAR 32.1108. The Contracting Officer will make the determination and choose to
use the GPC as the payment method for CHs to make contract payments on formal
contract vehicles up to the limit of the Contracting Officer’s warrant when the
GPC payment method is proven to be more advantageous to the Government.
Contracting officers are required to ensure contractor invoices are accurate.
Benefits to increasing GPC contract payments include greatly increased refunds
per effort expended, exemption from GPC data mining, and faster receipt of
payments. On average, vendors are paid within 3 to 4 days with a GPC. Additional
benefits may include decreased paperwork and costs, improved reconciliation,
reduced labor-intensive processes, and reduced fraud and charge-back risk.
Warranted contracting officers do not require a separate authority letter to use
the GPC. Contracting Officers normally appoint CHs residing in the contracting
office as GPC contract payment CHs. The Contracting Officer or an A/OPC with the
appropriate delegating authority may appoint GPC contract payment CHs outside
the contracting office providing the Contracting Officer or A/OPC with the
appropriate delegating authority provides adequate training and oversight.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">c. The contract must be properly entered in the financial management system
with the correct LOA, and the LOA must be entered into the servicing bank’s EAS
to ensure the financial management system posts the payment against the
appropriate contract line item number. All modifications impacting payment
and/or funding (including options exercised) must be re-coordinated with the RM,
CH, and BO to ensure the financial management system and the bank’s EAS are
properly updated. Failure to do so will result in the servicing bank not being
paid which may result in a possible account delinquency. The CH will maintain
supporting documentation in the bank’s EAS for each contract payment made using
the GPC.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">d. At a minimum, procedures will be in place to ensure proper separation of
duties to safeguard Government resources and to avoid the posting of double
obligations associated with the use of the GPC to make payment on existing
contract vehicles. Contracts where the GPC is used as the method of payment are
required to be fully funded. No progress (finance) payments are authorized.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">e. <b>FPDS-NG</b>. Contracting Officers are responsible for ensuring the FPDS
reporting is completed.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">f. FAR policy requires the consent of contractors when contemplating the use
of GPC as the payment method. Consent is typically obtained by including FAR
clause 52.232-36 in the solicitation and, if the contractor does not object, the
contract. Existing contracts may be modified to include the clause, with the
consent of the contractor. The vendor, not the Army, pays the bank an
interchange fee of approximately 3% of the transaction amount.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">g. <b>Contract Payment Processes</b>. The servicing bank has two different
methods for contract payments: a payment card process and a Payment Plus
process. See 15-4 and Figure 15-1 for a description of the payment card process.
See 15-5 and Figure 15-2 for a description of the Payment Plus process.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
