<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_6-4">
   <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">6-4.</ph> Third Party Payment Requirements</title>
   <conbody>
      <p outputclass="List1">a. <u>Use of Third- Party Payment Processors</u>: In no instance are
Cardholders (CHs) authorized to establish an account when using a third-party
payment processor, as doing so could require acceptance of or agreement to terms
and conditions or result in commitment of funds that have not been legally
allocated for purchases. Transactions using third-party payment processors are
considered high risk, as all available transaction data may not be completely
passed to the issuing bank (which can adversely affect reporting,
reconciliation, and oversight, including data mining (detection of improper card
use)), and may adversely affect transaction dispute terms and processes, among
other considerations.</p>
      <p>When selecting merchants to fulfill requirements, CHs shall use the following
procedures:</p>
      <p>1) Minimize use of third-party payment processors to the maximum extent
practicable.</p>
      <p>2) Ask if the merchant would require use of a third-party payment processor,
if there is any doubt regarding merchant use of one.</p>
      <p>3) If it is still found necessary to purchase from a merchant that requires
uses a third-party payment processor, CHs and A/BOs must ensure adequate
supporting documentation clearly showing there was a detailed review of the
purchase, and that purchase from a merchant requiring use of a third-party
payment processor was unavoidable.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">b. Additionally, Component Program Managers must ensure CHs are:</p>
      <p>1) Appropriately trained on DoD GPC Third-Party Payment Policy; DoD GPC
Policy for Non-DoD e-Commerce Platforms; related Component policy; and
third-party payment processor requirements and risks in OMB Circular A-123,
Appendix B; and GSA Smart Bulletin No. 023 entitled “GSA SmartPay-Third Party
Payment Processors”.</p>
      <p>2) Never authorized to establish an account when using third-party payment
services for processing GPC payments.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">c. GPC oversight personnel and CHs should be aware that in accordance with
GSA Smart Bulletin No. 23, third-party payment policy does not apply to
e-commerce platforms or brick-and-mortar merchants that do not accept payment
using third-party payment processors. See Attachment 2 for additional
guidance.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
