<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-AA_test_and_validation">
   <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">Test</ph> and Validation</title>
   <conbody>
      <p>
              <u>Section L</u>
            </p>
      <p>The offeror’s proposal shall identify the technical data,
software, and software documentation (i.e., test benches, training,
documentation, etc.) that will be provided to the Government for
conducting test and troubleshooting, and/or debugging activities.
The proposal shall identify considerations for these sustainment
activities to include roles and responsibilities allocated to
offeror and government organizations. The proposal shall address
support requirements for execution of Government Acceptance Testing
(GAT), Independent Verification and Validation (IV&amp;V), as well
as interoperability test capabilities of product baselines. The
offeror shall identify the hardware and software tools required to
execute field and depot level maintenance of Line Replaceable Units
(LRUs) and Shop Replaceable Units (SRUs). The proposal shall
identify considerations for these sustainment activities to include
roles and responsibilities allocated to offeror and government
organizations. The proposal shall identify test equipment support
requirements as applicable to the various stages of maintenance
levels. Consistent with the offeror’s Product
Support/Sustainment Strategy, the proposal shall identify
associated documentation that will empower Government’s
ability to verify the functions of software products and hardware
developed under this contract. The proposal shall also identify
associated documentation required for the Government to establish
the ability to verify the quality assurance of the sustainable
hardware and software configuration items.</p>
      <p>
              <u>Section M</u>
            </p>
      <p>The Government will evaluate the proposal for how and the extent
to which the offeror will ensure the Government has the ability to
engage in testing, troubleshooting, and/or debugging
activities.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
