<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_2-5">
  <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">2-5.</ph> Primary and Alternate Level 4 A/OPC Duties and Responsibilities</title>
  <conbody>
      <p outputclass="List1">a. Manage the day-to-day operation of the GPC program at an installation/organization.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">b. Assist CHs and BOs in fulfilling their responsibilities.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">c. Serve as the liaison between the Level 3 A/OPC and the installation/organization GPC personnel.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">d. Liaison between the financial/contracting communities as it applies to the GPC payment process.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">e. Serve as the installation/organization point of contact for bank-related matters.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">f. Provide business advice to supporting organizations, CHs, BOs, and small business specialists.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">g. Participate in meetings. Communicate Army policy updates and internal review findings.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">h. Assist the Level 3 to increase rebates and lower administrative and merchant costs.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">i. Ensure the proper disposition of rebate checks.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">j. Ensure GPC Program personnel are properly trained and appointed.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">k. Maintain currency in training in order to perform their respective duties.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">l. Establish and maintain a manual or electronic file for each BO and CH per retention rules.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">m. Establish, maintain, and terminate CH and BO accounts within the servicing bank’s EAS.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">n. Ensure that all managing accounts have a primary and alternate BO.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">o. Evaluate the effectiveness of each BO’s ability to review, approve and reconcile transactions.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">p. Ensure timely reconciliation of all CH and BO accounts at the end of the billing cycle.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">q. Coordinate with RMs to ensure timely certification and payment.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">r. Confirm completion of required initial and refresher training for all CHs and BOs.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">s. Maintain training records within PIEE and JAM.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">t. Coordinate with the Accountable Property Officer (APO).</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">u. Provide training to CHs on property accountability procedures.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">v. Nominate and appoint CHs and BOs within PIEE and JAM.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">w. Maintain and terminate appointment letters in JAM.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">x. Maintain program oversight through IOD, annual management assessment, and bank reports.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">y. Complete all assigned IOD cases, monthly reviews, and semi-annual reviews per policy timelines.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">z. Address program deficiencies and discrepancies identified in IOD.</p>
      <p>aa. Annually assess each CH’s continuing need to maintain an account.</p>
      <p>bb. Close unused accounts as appropriate.</p>
      <p>cc. Request justification in writing from BOs when accounts with little activity must remain open.</p>
      <p>dd. Perform Level 4 Annual Assessment using the Annual Assessment Checklist.</p>
      <p>ee. Develop and implement local GPC procedures.</p>
      <p>ff. Inform CHs of prohibited items and services.</p>
      <p>gg. Monitor bank transaction reports to identify potential improper use of the GPC.</p>
      <p>hh. Take corrective action to address any suspected legal or policy violations.</p>
      <p>ii. In the event of unauthorized card activity or fraud, set the single purchase limit to $1.</p>
      <p>jj. Monitor bank transaction declination reports to identify potential fraud activity.</p>
      <p>kk. Review transactions of newly appointed CHs within four months of appointment.</p>
      <p>ll. Reduce managing accounts as appropriate to meet mission needs.</p>
      <p>mm. Process requests for user identifications in the servicing bank’s EAS.</p>
      <p>nn. Screen any accounts which have not been used within six months and take appropriate action.</p>
      <p>oo. Utilize the Semi-Annual Report to brief management.</p>
      <p>pp. Process and retain waivers, exceptions, and deviations.</p>
      <p>qq. Ensure lost/stolen cards are immediately reported.</p>
      <p>rr. Temporarily suspend any account over 30 calendar days past due.</p>
      <p>ss. Suspend entire Level 4 organization accounts for any account over 120 days past due.</p>
      <p>tt. Review and submit reports as required.</p>
      <p>uu. Analyze trends to improve the Program.</p>
      <p>vv. Assist BOs and CHs with reports as necessary.</p>
      <p>ww. Activate, deactivate/terminate, and maintain (adjust limits, etc.) CH and BO accounts.</p>
      <p>xx. Identify, monitor, and resolve any terminated accounts with outstanding credits.</p>
      <p>yy. Ensure appropriate separation of duties and span of control ratios are maintained.</p>
      <p>zz. Proactively address automated email notifications (e.g., IOD cases or delinquencies).</p>
      <p>aaa. Address deficiencies and discrepancies impacting program effectiveness or efficiencies.</p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
