<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_10-3">
   <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">10-3.</ph> Convenience Check Reporting (IRS Form 1099)</title>
   <conbody>
      <p outputclass="List1">a. IRS requires DoD federal agencies to report convenience check payments as
income. See 26 USC 6041, 6041A, and 6045. IRS Form 1099 must be issued to check
recipients for certain payment types. (Refer to <xref href="https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/i1099msc.pdf"
               format="html"
               scope="external">IRS Instructions for Form 1099 - MISC</xref> for more detail
regarding payment types that are not reportable to DFAS.) Convenience check data
must be reported to the IRS as income to the check recipients. IRS matches the
reported data to the check recipients’ tax returns to ensure income is
reported.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>Tax Reporting</b>. The DFAS Tax Office emails convenience check
purchasing data to the checkwriters for verification on a monthly basis. The
email contains a spreadsheet, instructions, and the suspense date for return.
Upon receipt of the spreadsheet, checkwriters must update the required columns
and email the spreadsheet to the following mailbox: <xref href="mailto:dfas.cco-checks@mail.mil"
               format="html"
               scope="external">DFAS 1099 Check Writer Reporting</xref> within five business
days upon receipt. This data is used to process IRS 1099-MISC forms. The BO is
responsible to monitor the checkwriter's compliance. BOs and checkwriters who do
not return the requested information to DFAS are responsible for their own tax
form issuance and IRS tax reporting. Instructions for submitting convenience
check 1099 tax reporting information is available on the <xref href="https://www.dfas.mil/contractorsvendors/taxinfo/Convenience-Check-1099PRO/"
               format="html"
               scope="external">DFAS Office Website</xref>.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">c. Checkwriters will obtain the vendor information and W-9 required for tax
reporting before paying the vendor, as stated in DoD 7000-14R FMR 26 Volume 10,
Chapter 6, 060209. The checkwriter is responsible for tax reporting for the
convenience checks they issue and for obtaining a signed IRS Form W9, Request
for Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">d. DFAS ESS Tax Office will perform the following actions:</p>
      <p>1) Provide monthly spreadsheets containing the servicing bank’s universe of
convenience check payment data to A/OPCs, BOs, and checkwriters for completion
of additional information.</p>
      <p>2) Provide tax reporting guidance to checkwriters.</p>
      <p>3) Aggregate the payment data to determine tax form issuance and issue tax
forms to check recipients.</p>
      <p>4) Electronically report the payment data to the IRS.</p>
      <p>5) Provide report to A/OPCs, BOs, and checkwriters of data that resulted in
tax form issuance.</p>
      <p>6) Provide customer service to tax form recipients.</p>
      <p>7) Issue corrected tax forms.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">e. A/OPCs, Billing Officials, and Checkwriters will perform the following
actions:</p>
      <p>1) Supplement the payment data with the necessary reporting data, annotate
payment as reportable or not reportable, and return spreadsheets to tax
office.</p>
      <p>2) Maintain and update points of contact in the U.S. Bank account.</p>
      <p>3) Maintain final summarized spreadsheet provided by DFAS and copies of the
check registers for audit purposes.</p>
      <p>4) Have a signed W-9 from vendors on file.</p>
      <p>5) Ensure that spreadsheets are completed correctly and returned by
deadline.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">f. The checkwriter must complete the following fields in the DFAS
spreadsheet:</p>
      <p>1) <b>Payment Description</b>. Define the purpose of the payment to the
vendor.</p>
      <p>2) <b>Yes or No Reportable Transaction</b>. Indicate whether vendor and
payment type are tax reportable. “Yes” is reportable. “No” is not
reportable.</p>
      <p>3) For all tax reportable payments, complete the following fields:</p>
      <p>(a) Vendor’s Taxpayer Identification Number: SSN, EIN, ITIN</p>
      <p>(b) Vendor’s Name and Doing Business As Name</p>
      <p>(c) Vendor’s Current mailing address</p>
      <p>(d) Vendor’s City</p>
      <p>(e) Vendor’s State</p>
      <p>(f) Vendor’s Zip Code</p>
      <p>(g) Vendor’s Country</p>
      <p>(h) Indicate the payment amount in <b>one</b> of the following fields, as
applicable:</p>
      <p>(1) Check paid for Rents, Rentals, Leases</p>
      <p>(2) Check paid for Royalties</p>
      <p>(3) Check paid to individual for medical research</p>
      <p>(4) Check Paid for Medical/Dental Services</p>
      <p>(5) Check paid to a vendor or individual not Government employee</p>
      <p>(6) Check paid for Attorney Fees</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
