<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_6-12">
  <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">6-12.</ph> Rejected Payments</title>
  <conbody>
      <p outputclass="List1">a. BOs must review LOAs selected by the CH as part of the review, reconciliation, and certification process. Payments are generally rejected as a result of missing or incorrect LOAs. The Army’s financial management system will also reject missing or incorrect LOAs, requiring the finance office to make corrections or complete a manual payment in the system. When this happens, the A/OPC will notify the BO when a payment has been rejected in the system. The BO must immediately contact their RM for assistance in obligating funds in the system and processing the manual payment. For GFEBS-funded accounts, follow the GFEBS manual payment process.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>Steps for processing manual payments for non-GFEBS-funded accounts</b>.</p>
      <p>1) Print the managing account statement from the servicing bank’s EAS (located under Account Information).</p>
      <p>2) Download the Statement Signature Page and certify the statement with a pen and ink signature.</p>
      <p>3) The BO may obtain the document control number for each transaction by running the Standard Document Number report from the bank’s EAS (located under Custom Reports).</p>
      <p>4) After the document control number is applied, the BO must forward the request for commitment, obligation, and expense to the appropriate resource manager along with a copy of the certified GPC bank statement.</p>
      <p>5) The resource manager must input the requirement to the financial management system within two business days of receipt.</p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
