<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_1-1">
  <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">1-1.</ph> Overview</title>
  <conbody>
      <p outputclass="List1">a. The Army Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (AFARS) Appendix EE provides policy guidance and procedures for the management of the Army Government Purchase Card (GPC) program. It implements and supplements sections of the Department of Defense (DoD) Government Charge Card Guidebook for Establishing and Managing Purchase, Travel, and Fuel Card Programs (hereinafter referred to as the DoD Charge Card Guidebook). If information is not discussed in this document or if this document is in conflict with the DoD GPC Policy, the DoD GPC Policy should be followed. This document applies to all purchases utilizing Army-issued GPCs. </p>
      <p outputclass="List1">b. Refer recommended changes and questions about the AFARS Appendix EE to the Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army (Procurement) (ODASA(P)). Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command. Compliance with the AFARS Appendix EE is mandatory.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">c. The GPC program provides Army and supported organizations a simplified, streamlined method of purchasing and paying for supplies, services, construction projects, and contract payments. The program complies with Federal, DoD, and Army statutory and regulatory guidance, as well as the terms and conditions specified in the most current General Services Administration (GSA) SmartPay® 3 Master Contract. The primary benefit of the GPC Program is that the card-issuing banks provide a commercial purchase and payment service that replaces the paper-based, time-consuming purchase order process; reduces procurement lead time; provides transaction cost savings; reduces procurement office workload; provides refunds; and facilitates payment to include reductions in interest payments.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">d. The AFARS Appendix EE provides the procedures to use within the Army, including Army National Guard (ARNG) and Air National Guard (ANG), to establish and manage the Army GPC program. Army activities may supplement (i.e., adopt more stringent internal control requirements than the requirements cited herein), but not change this policy. However, as these are risk-managed programs, activities should maintain a proper balance between the control environment and ease of use to ensure that the benefits of the card continue to accrue. These procedures establish Army-wide standards designed to provide all Army activities with a foundation upon which to build specific standard operating procedures governing their programs.</p>
      <p id="Toc532909289" outputclass="List1">e. Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) activities implement policies and procedures governing the Army’s Morale, Welfare, and Recreation programs and regulations for Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities (NAFI). Chaplaincy activities implement policies and procedures governing Army Chaplain Corps activities. Army NAFIs/entities must operate within the parameters of these procedures to include Public Health Command (PHC) NAFIs, Department of Defense Education Activities (DoDEA) NAFIs, and Army National Guard NAFIs. NAF activities will comply with the Department of Defense Policies and Procedures Governing Non-Appropriated Funds SmartPay® 3 Government-wide Commercial Purchase Card Use – SP3 Transition Memorandum #11.</p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
