<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_APPENDIX-AA_modular_open_systems_approach_mosa_10_u_s_code_4401">
   <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">Modular</ph> Open Systems Approach (MOSA) (10 U.S. Code § 4401)</title>
   <conbody>
      <p>
              <u>Section L</u>
            </p>
      <p>The offeror’s proposal shall clearly:</p>
      <p> Describe how a MOSA is to be used for the &lt;Program
Title&gt; and differentiate between Major Systems
Platform (MSPs), Major System Components (MSCs), and Modular System
Interfaces <b>(</b>MSIs.).</p>
      <p> Differentiate and describe the MSI(s) and non-MSI
interfaces.</p>
      <p> Describe the evolution of the MSCs that are anticipated
to be added, removed, or replaced in subsequent increments.</p>
      <p> Identify additional MSCs that might be added in the
future.</p>
      <p> Describe how IP and related issues, such as technical
data deliverables and license rights necessary to support a MOSA,
will be addressed.</p>
      <p> Describe how a MOSA will preclude the need for
purchasing of licenses or Government Purpose Rights (GPR) by
requiring the application of open, widely-used, consensus based
standards &lt;[e.g. Future Airborne Capability Environment
(FACE™) and Sensor Open Systems Architecture (SOSA)]&gt; in
the solicitation.</p>
      <p> Describe the MSI(s) and where MSI(s) are in the system
architecture. To the maximum extent practicable, ensure that MSI(s)
incorporate commercial standards and other widely supported
consensus based standards that are validated, published, and
maintained by recognized standards organizations.</p>
      <p> Describe which MSI(s) are required for segregation and
reintegration purposes.</p>
      <p> Describe the approach to systems integration and
systems-level configuration management to ensure mission and
information assurance.</p>
      <p>
              <u>Section M</u>
            </p>
      <p>The Government will evaluate the proposal for how and the extent
to which the offeror’s ability to address both business and
technical needs in support of the Government’s objective to
achieve lifecycle goals, as stated in the &lt;PWS&gt;, for a
product or family of products.</p>
      <p>&lt;Consult: Army Directive 2018-26, Enabling Modernization
through Management of Intellectual Property, 7 December 2018;
Change 1, Implementation Guidance for Army Directive 2018-26, dated
17 December 2020; and DoDI 5010.44, Intellectual Property (IP)
Acquisition and Licensing and Modular Open Systems Approach (MOSA)
Implementation Guide, Version 1.1, 10 Jun 2020&gt;</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
