<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_APPENDIX-AA_e-2_3">
          <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">E-2.3</ph> Develop the Request for Proposals (RFP)</title>
          <conbody>
            <p>In accordance with FAR 15.203, an RFP is used in negotiated
acquisitions to communicate the Government’s requirement(s)
to prospective offerors and to solicit proposals. When developing
the RFP, consider the following:</p>
            <p>1. The RFP should clearly and effectively communicate the
Government’s IP and data rights priorities. Incorporate
delivery requirements and require offerors to assert their specific
restrictions, if any.</p>
            <p>2. Establish a clear understanding of the IP, data deliverables,
and associated license rights requirements.</p>
            <p>3. The required data or software must be a deliverable, assigned
to a CLIN and associated with a CDRL.</p>
            <p>4. Be transparent in articulating IP, data deliverables, and
associated license rights requirements. Also, provide transparency
for requirements related to data for operation, maintenance,
installation, and training (OMIT); modernization; advanced/additive
manufacturing; and sustainment objectives with industry.</p>
            <p>5. Communicate early with industry. Provide
details of the Army’s intended program product
support/sustainment strategy (including sustainment needs and broad
categories of data and/or software required).</p>
            <p>6. Determine whether an offeror has the capability to deliver
license rights for technical data and computer software necessary
for depot level maintenance.</p>
            <p>7. Consistent with 10 U.S.C. §§ 3771-3775, the
contractor or subcontractor is not required to sell or relinquish
to the Government any additional rights in technical data the
Government is not already entitled to as a condition of being
responsive to a solicitation or as a condition of contract award.
However, additional rights conveyed to the Government may be
considered part of a source selection tradeoff.</p>
            <p>8. Once the technical data and/or software required to
complement the maintenance and supply support strategies has been
identified, include solicitation provisions and contract clauses
related to patent, data, and software license rights. Typical
clauses that should be considered for inclusion are:</p>
            <p>
              <b>Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)</b>
            </p>
            <p>FAR 52.227-1 Authorization and Consent</p>
            <p>FAR 52.227-2 Notice and Assistance Regarding Patent and
Copyright Infringement</p>
            <p>FAR 52.227-3 Patent Indemnity</p>
            <p>52.227-5 Waiver of Indemnity</p>
            <p>FAR 52.227-6 Royalty Information</p>
            <p>52.227-7 Patents-Notice of Government Licensee</p>
            <p>FAR 52.227-9 Refund of Royalties</p>
            <p>52.227-10 Filing of Patent Applications-Classified Subject
Matter</p>
            <p>FAR 52.227-11 Patent Rights – Ownership By the
Contractor</p>
            <p>FAR 52.227-13 Patent Rights – Ownership By the
Government</p>
            <p>FAR 52.232-39 Unenforceability of Unauthorized Obligations</p>
            <p>
              <b>Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
(DFARS)</b>
            </p>
            <p>DFARS 252.227-7013Rights in Technical Data—Other Than
Commercial Products and Commercial Services.</p>
            <p>DFARS 252.227-7014Rights in Other Than Commercial Computer
Software and Other Than Commercial Computer Software
Documentation.</p>
            <p>DFARS 252.227-7015 Technical Data–Commercial Products and
Commercial Services.</p>
            <p>DFARS 252.227-7016 Rights in Bid or Proposal Information.</p>
            <p>DFARS 252.227-7017 Identification and Assertion of Use, Release,
or Disclosure Restrictions.</p>
            <p>252.227-7018, Rights in Other Than Commercial Technical Data and
Computer Software--Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR)
Program</p>
            <p>DFARS 252.227-7019 Validation of Asserted Restrictions--Computer
Software.</p>
            <p>DFARS 252.227-7020 Rights in Special Works.</p>
            <p>DFARS 252.227-7025 Limitations on the Use or Disclosure of
Government-Furnished Information Marked with Restrictive
Legends.</p>
            <p>DFARS 252.227-7026 Deferred Delivery of Technical Data or
Computer Software.</p>
            <p>DFARS 252.227-7027 Deferred Ordering of Technical Data or
Computer Software.</p>
            <p>DFARS 252.227-7028 Technical Data or Computer Software
Previously Delivered to the Government.</p>
            <p>DFARS 252.227-7030 Technical Data--Withholding of Payment.</p>
            <p>DFARS 252.227-7037 Validation of Restrictive Markings on
Technical Data.</p>
            <p>(NOTE: Regulations change over time and should be checked
frequently for currency and content. Not all of the listed clauses
above are appropriate together in any particular solicitation or
contract. Other clauses may also be appropriate when there is
development other than exclusively at private expense. Contract
provision and FAR/DFARS clause selection should be modified to fit
each effort. In addition to the standard acquisition attorney
review, an IP attorney should be consulted prior to the release of
any solicitation/contract award involving IP deliverables and
associated license rights.)</p>
            <p>9. Request that offerors propose their own sustainment
transition plan and use it as an evaluation factor (technical sub
factor – Supportability and Maintenance).</p>
            <p>10. For trademark license rights and protection of Government
Program names and model designators consult a Government IP or
patent attorney for guidance.</p>
            <p>11. Require offerors to submit computer software and data rights
assertions of restrictions in a table consistent with DFARS
252.227-7013, DFARS 252.227-7014, or DFARS 252.227-7017.</p>
            <p>12. Request that offerors propose all cost(s)/price(s) to
acquire additional license and patent rights than the Government is
entitled to and explain any limitations that may be imposed by the
offeror. Include FAR 52.227-6 in solicitation if appropriate and
certifies cost and pricing data is required. (Note: The offeror is
required to identify/disclose any royalty cost(s)/price(s) for
third-party patents proposed to be used in performance of the
contract.)</p>
            <p>13. Ensure the MOSA requirements are set forth in the PWS, SOW,
or Statement of Objectives (SOO), (Section C) of RFP, for a
proposed Open Systems Management Plan and incorporated in resulting
contract.</p>
          </conbody>
        </concept>
