<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_6-3">
    <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">6-3.</ph> National Defense Authorization Act Section 889
        Representation</title>
    <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. Effective August 13, 2020, FAR Case 2018-017 amends the FAR to
            implement section 889(a)(1(B) of the John S. McCain NDAA for Fiscal
            Year 2019 which prohibits Federal agencies from purchasing products
            or services from entities that use covered equipment or services as
            a substantial or essential component of any system, or as critical
            technology as part of any system, regardless of whether that usage
            is in performance of work under Federal contract. <xref href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/asda/dpc/cp/cyber/gpc.html"
               format="html"
               scope="external">DPC 889 Memorandum dated September 9, 2020</xref>
            requires recording of specific 889 designations in the bank’s EAS
            for <b>all</b> GPC transactions. <xref href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/asda/dpc/ce/pc/docs/guides-docs/DPC-CeB_Memo-Recording_889_Designation_and_ETO_Values(GPC-2022-02).pdf"
               format="html"
               scope="external">DPC GPC Memorandum dated June 29, 2022</xref>
            provides further guidance on completing the required fields. CHs
            must record 889 Designation and Emergency Type Operation (ETO)
            information in the bank’s EAS.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. 889 Representation. Federal law requires CHs to obtain a current
            889 representation for each transaction and to include the
            representation with their transaction documentation. The
            representation contains the language from FAR 52.204-26, Covered
            Telecommunications Equipment or Services-Representation. CHs may
            obtain the vendor’s 889 representation by using one of the following
            methods:</p>
        <p>1) Log into the <xref href="https://www.sam.gov/" format="html" scope="external">System for Award Management (SAM.gov)
            website</xref>. Locate the vendor’s entity registration and review
            FAR 52.204-26, under Reps and Certs.</p>
        <p>2) Use the robotic process automation (RPA) tool to search SAM.gov.
            Send an email to <xref href="mailto:info@section889request.com"
               format="html"
               scope="external">info@section889request.com</xref> with the vendor’s
            Unique Entity ID (UEI) or Cage code in the subject line. Do not
            include any text in the body of the email. The RPA will return an
            email with the vendor’s FAR 52.204-26 language, if applicable.</p>
        <p>3) Use the vendor’s completed 889 representation form. The form must
            be dated and signed. Completed forms are valid for 1 year after date
            of signature unless the vendor updates their systems at which time
            the vendor will need to fill out a new 889 form.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. The requirement to obtain an 889 representation does not apply
            under these conditions:</p>
        <p>1) Contract payments. When the GPC is used as a method of payment
            against a contract, the Contracting Officer is responsible for
            ensuring compliance prior to award.</p>
        <p>2) Inter/intra-governmental payments.</p>
        <p>3) SF 182 training payments.</p>
        <p>4) Fraudulent (external) transactions.</p>
        <p>5) Fees (e.g., convenience check fees).</p>
        <p>6) Refunds and transaction credits/discounts.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. Pursuant to DoD policy, bank EAS entries must indicate how the
            vendor’s 889 representation was obtained. CHs must enter one of the
            allowable codes in Table 6-2 in the following locations in the
            bank’s EAS, as applicable:</p>
        <p>1) CHs creating manual orders will use the “889 Designation” field in
            Order Management.</p>
        <p>2) CHs receiving editable eOrders will use the “889 Designation”
            field in Order Management.</p>
        <p>3) CHs receiving non-editable eOrders will use the “889 Designation”
            field in the Custom Fields tab in Transaction Management.</p>
        <p>4) For 100% of transactions, CH must enter appropriate 889
            designation in the bank’s EAS.</p>
        <p>BOs must check for bank EAS entries when reconciling. BOs and A/OPCs
            must monitor 889 compliance during DM case dispositions and should
            use the “Cyber Security Non-Compliance” finding for cases without an
            889 bank EAS entry once CI 193 is implemented.</p>
        <p id="Toc101947058"> 
         <b>Table 6-2: DoD Allowable Purchase Log
            Entries</b> 
      </p>
        <table>
            <tgroup cols="2">
                <colspec colnum="1" colwidth="0.5*" colname="col1"/>
                <colspec colnum="2" colwidth="1.5*" colname="col2"/>
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>Text to Enter in the</p> 
                     <p> 889 Designation
                            Field</p> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry>Applicability</entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry>889 Merchant Rep</entry>
                        <entry>Merchant provided the required 889 representation
                            at FAR 52.204-26(c)(2) or equivalent with a “does
                            not” response; the CH relied upon the representation
                            to make the purchase.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>889 ODNI</entry>
                        <entry>Merchant provided the required 889 representation
                            at FAR 52.204-26(c)(2) or equivalent with a “does”
                            response, but it has been determined the required
                            supplies/services are covered by an ODNI waiver
                            granted in accordance with FAR 4.2104 (e.g., the
                            transaction is for supplies/services included in a
                            Product Service Code (PSC)-based waiver); the CH
                            relied upon the waiver to make the purchase.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>889 Exception</entry>
                        <entry>Merchant has provided the required 889
                            representation at FAR 52.204- 26(c)(2) with a “does”
                            response, but in conjunction with the supporting
                            contracting office, a FAR 52.204-25(c) exception
                            applies; the CH relied upon the exception to make
                            the purchase. Written approval from the supporting
                            contracting office must be included with the
                            transaction supporting data.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>889 Payment</entry>
                        <entry>CH was not required to obtain the required 889
                            representation at FAR 52.204-26(c)(2) because the
                            GPC was used only as a method of payment. Examples
                            include the following payments: contract payments;
                            intra/inter-governmental payments; and SF 182
                            commercial training payments.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>889 Non-Compliant</entry>
                        <entry>CH purchased supplies/services without obtaining
                            the required 889 representation at FAR 52.204-26,
                            that were not covered by an ODNI waiver, an
                            Executive Agency waiver, or a FAR authorized
                            exception. The purchase was NOT in compliance with
                            GPC policy.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Fraudulent (external) Transactions</entry>
                        <entry>CH should select when transaction is believed to
                            be a fraudulent purchase.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Disputed Transactions</entry>
                        <entry>CH should select when disputing the
                            transaction.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Fees (e.g., Convenience Check)</entry>
                        <entry>CH should select when transaction is for
                            fees.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Refunds &amp; Trans Credits/Discounts</entry>
                        <entry>CH should select when transaction is for refunds
                            and transaction credits and discounts.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Memo for Record approved by A/OPC</entry>
                        <entry>For other A/OPC-approved scenarios, CHs should
                            prepare a short MFR documenting the situation and
                            include it with the transaction supporting data in
                            the bank’s EAS or as otherwise directed in Component
                            GPC record retention instructions.</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
    </conbody>
</concept>
