<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_11-1">
   <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">11-1.</ph> Management Oversight Controls</title>
   <conbody>
      <p outputclass="List1">a. DoD Instruction 5010.40, “Managers’ Internal Control Program Procedures,”
30 May 2013, requires DoD organizations to implement a comprehensive system of
internal controls providing reasonable assurance that programs are operating as
intended and to evaluate the effectiveness of the controls. Management and
program oversight is conducted to achieve the following goals:</p>
      <p>1) Validate and promote compliance with existing purchasing and management
internal controls.</p>
      <p>2) Identify, report, and resolve systemic material program weaknesses.</p>
      <p>3) Measure the effectiveness of purchasing and management internal
controls.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">b. GPC management oversight controls are tools and activities that are used
to identify, report, and address fraud, waste, and abuse. The Army GPC Program
fully implements guidance and direction addressed in the April 18, 2019, OUSD
Memorandum, “DoD SmartPay® 3 Government-wide Commercial Purchase Card policies,
Procedures and Tools – SP3 Transition Memorandum #6.”</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>Data analytics.</b> Data analytics is the application of electronic
tools (software and/or systems) for automated data sorting, filtering and mining
techniques using self-learning algorithms to search GPC transaction data in
order to identify patterns, trends, risks, opportunities and other information.
Data analytics and reporting tools are available as part of the GSA SmartPay® 3
Government-wide charge card program. Agencies have the ability to monitor their
account transactions to identify any unusual spending patterns or frequency of
transactions. Agency data analytics, in addition to the data analytics
techniques already used by the banks to monitor account transactions, provide a
multi-layered approach to help identify suspected fraud, misuse and delinquency.
Data analytics can also be used to identify opportunities for expanded card use
and associated benefits for the Army. A/OPCs should use data analytics tools to
assist them in the management and oversight of their GPC program.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">d. The Army uses preventive, detective, and directive controls to monitor the
GPC program.</p>
      <p>1) Preventive controls are designed to discourage errors or irregularities
from occurring (e.g., processing a transaction only after it has been properly
approved by the appropriate personnel).</p>
      <p>2) Detective controls are designed to find errors or irregularities after
they have occurred (e.g., IOD data mining, approving statements, and reconciling
monthly invoices).</p>
      <p>3) Directive controls are designed to encourage a desirable event (e.g.,
written policies and procedures to assist in compliance and the accomplishment
of the goals and objectives of the GPC program).</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">e. Understanding<indexterm>Understanding</indexterm> internal controls
assists GPC participants in their stewardship role in achieving GPC program
objectives. Internal control is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the achievement of objectives in the following categories:
effectiveness and efficiency of operations, reliability of financial reporting,
and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. This
understanding<indexterm>understanding</indexterm> provides an additional
reference tool for all GPC participants to identify and assess operating
controls, financial reporting, and legal/regulatory compliance processes and to
take action to strengthen controls where needed. Over time, controls may be
expected to change to reflect changes in the operating environment. In order to
achieve a balance between risk<indexterm>risk</indexterm> and controls, internal
controls should address exposure to risk and be proactive, value-added, and
cost-effective.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">f. Identifying Fraudulent, Improper and Abusive Purchases. Designing and
conducting procedures specifically for the purpose of detecting such
transactions (e.g., IOD data mining) serves multiple purposes, including the
potential discovery of a previously unrecognized risk in the program. Repeated
non-adherence to established internal control policies and procedures, such as
inadequate documentation of purchase card transactions or supervisory reviews,
if allowed to continue, would contribute to erosion and weakening of the GPC
internal control system. Prompt administrative and disciplinary actions can be
effective in reducing persistent lack of adherence to policies and procedures by
CHs and other program officials.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">g. The SCO and A/OPCs are responsible for adhering to the requirements
specified in OMB Circular A-123, Management’s Responsibility for Internal
Control. This circular provides guidance on improving the accountability and
effectiveness of GPC programs and operations by establishing, assessing,
correcting, and reporting on internal control, as well as prescribing policies
and procedures to agencies regarding how to maintain internal controls that
reduce the risk of fraud, waste, and error in GPC programs.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">h. The SCO and A/OPCs are also responsible for adhering to the requirements
specified in 10 USC 4754 (as modified by Public Law 112–194, Government Charge
Card Abuse Prevention Act of 2012). These statutory requirements mandate the
following actions (list not comprehensive):</p>
      <p>1) Using effective systems, techniques, and technologies to prevent or
identify improper purchases.</p>
      <p>2) Invalidating GPCs from each employee who ceases to be employed by the
Government or separates from Military Service.</p>
      <p>3) Taking steps to recover the cost of any illegal, improper, or erroneous
purchases made with a purchase card or convenience check made by an employee or
member of the armed forces, including, as necessary, through salary offsets.</p>
      <p>4) Taking appropriate adverse personnel actions or imposing other punishments
when employees of the Army violate regulations governing the use and control of
purchase cards and convenience checks or who are negligent or engage in misuse,
abuse, or fraud with respect to a purchase card, including removal in
appropriate cases. Violations of such regulations by a person subject to 10 USC
Chapter 47, the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), is punishable as a
violation of section 892 of article 92 of the UCMJ.</p>
      <p>5) Requiring the Army Audit Agency to conduct periodic audits or reviews of
GPC programs to identify and analyze risks of illegal, improper, or erroneous
purchases and payments and report the result to the Director of the OMB and
Congress.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">i. A/OPCs must provide monitoring, oversight, training, and administration of
all BOs and CHs. Supervisors and BOs are responsible for the monitoring and
oversight of BOs and CHs under their purview.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">j. To minimize losses to the Army, the program must have an expectation of
high integrity and ethical behavior from all participants, and sufficient staff
to perform the following functions:</p>
      <p>1) Conduct periodic risk assessments to identify fraud, waste, and abuse and
establish specific controls to reasonably ensure that losses from these risks
are minimized, to include data mining.</p>
      <p>2) Conduct proper training and complete reporting and data analysis to ensure
personnel have the skills and information needed to be effective in their
positions.</p>
      <p>3) Conduct detailed, effective management and oversight.</p>
      <p>4) Implement corrective actions when cardholder management is non-compliant
with Army policies and procedures.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">k. Monitoring and oversight of the GPC is a shared responsibility. All
stakeholders in the program, including Resource and Financial Managers,
logistics, contracting, and local audit and oversight organizations, are
responsible for ensuring that the GPC is used in the proper manner and only
authorized and necessary official purchases are made. Organizations should
develop and follow a monitoring and oversight plan that establishes frequencies,
methods, participation, etc., on how their monitoring/oversight programs will
operate.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">l. DPC issued several SP3 Transition Memorandums on GPC monitoring and
oversight. DPC will rely on the signed Semi-Annual HA data provided by CPMs to
accomplish DoD GPC reporting required by OMB. DPC updates visual trending of
statistical and violation information to identify trends in GPC use and
variances and shares this information with the Army during the GPC CPM Monthly
Calls.</p>
      <p id="Hlk118374461" outputclass="List1">m. The GPC Integrated Solutions Team (IST) is DoD’s GPC
governance body. IST membership consists of a GPC Governance Board composed of
representatives from DPC, Army, Navy, Air Force, other Defense agencies, and
supported by the bank team. The bank team consists of U.S. Bank (card-issuing
bank), MasterCard (card association), and Oversight Systems (data mining
vendor). The IST typically meets semi-annually to achieve the following:</p>
      <p>1) Review trends and changes in the GPC industry and the DoD GPC Program.</p>
      <p>2) Identify and approve any necessary adjustments to the bank team's
electronic capabilities, DoD’s GPC enterprise tools, and/or DoD GPC
policies.</p>
      <p>3) Identify and approve changes to the DM rules and system parameter
settings.</p>
      <p>4) Bring efficiencies to the Program by adjusting the business
rules/parameters based on transaction risk.</p>
      <p>5) Review trends and changes in the GPC industry and the DoD GPC Program.</p>
      <p>6) Identify any necessary adjustments to the bank team's electronic
capabilities, DoD’s GPC enterprise tools, and/or DoD GPC policies.</p>
      <p>7) Identify and approving changes to the Data Mining rules.</p>
      <p>8) Review relevant data mining case information and recommendations provided
by the bank team (e.g., percentage of data mining cases created for review;
frequency with which each rule is triggered and associated DM case disposition,
and information about the findings, determinations, and corrective actions
identified) and results of the Semi-Annual HA process to inform its decision
making.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
