<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_6-10">
      <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">6-10.</ph> Disputes, Defective Items and
Fraudulent Transactions</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. <b>Disputes</b>. Cardholders must
protect the Army’s interest by initiating disputes when
applicable. Failure to do so may result in administrative or
disciplinary action. Transaction errors, such as duplicate billing,
non-receipt or cancellation of supplies or services, returned
supplies, invoice amount discrepancies, transaction paid by other
means (e.g., split payments w/another organization), must be
handled initially between the CH and the merchant. If the merchant
is unwilling to accommodate a resolution, the CH will file a
dispute in the bank’s EAS. If a dispute is resolved in favor
of the CH, a credit will be placed on the CH’s statement. If
the dispute is resolved in favor of the merchant, a letter will be
sent to the CH explaining the decision and, since the charge was
already paid, no further action will be taken. The steps below
outline the process for disputing a charge:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Attempt to resolve any issue directly with the
merchant prior to initiating a dispute.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Document all available information and attempts
to correct the dispute. This information will become part of the
supporting documentation.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Initiate the dispute in the bank’s EAS
(only after failing to resolve the issue with the merchant) as
early as possible, but within 45 days from the posted date of the
transaction.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) Respond to any bank requests for additional
information.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>Defective Items</b>. If items or
services purchased are faulty or defective, the CH will obtain a
replacement or repair of the item or re-performance of the service
as soon as possible. If the merchant refuses to credit, replace,
repair the faulty item, or re-perform the service to satisfaction,
the CH will dispute the transaction.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>Fraud</b>. If the CH discovers
fraudulent transactions (e.g., use of a lost or stolen card) on the
statement, the CH will immediately contact the bank’s
Customer Service Department. The CH should also notify his A/OPC
and BO of any fraudulent activity. If fraudulent activity is
confirmed (which means a third party has gained access to the
account), the bank will terminate the account and replace it with a
new account number. All account information will transfer to the
new account and the CH will continue to work with the servicing
bank to resolve the fraudulent transactions.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. Only the CH or BO can approve, dispute, or
reallocate purchase card transactions. The servicing bank is
responsible to ensure adequate controls are in place within their
EAS to preclude anyone other than the BO from accessing, making
changes, and certifying the monthly billing statement.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
