<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_1-5"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <title outputclass="Heading 2">
      <ph props="autonumber">1-5.</ph> GPC Authority</title>
   <conbody>
      <p id="UmWUgf" outputclass="List1">a. The Chief of the Contracting Office (CCO) shall delegate micro-purchase procurement authority to individuals at the lowest level in accordance with FAR Part 1-603-3(b). This authority may be redelegated in writing to the Level 3 or 4 Agency/Organization Program Coordinator (A/OPC). Sample appointment letters are located at Appendix F.</p>
      <p id="rTEoUV" outputclass="List1">b. Orientation and training on the Army purchase card program is a prerequisite to receiving a GPC.</p>
      <p id="hqLJds" outputclass="List1">c. Generally, only government employees can be cardholders. However, a number of exceptions apply:</p>
      <p id="mrIhkK" outputclass="List2">(1) Under certain conditions, GSA can authorize contractors to establish cards directly with the issuing bank, if necessary. (DOD Guidebook page A-1). Requests for GPC by contractors working under cost type contracts shall be forwarded to the Army contracting officer for the cost-reimbursable contract. If the contracting officer determines that the contractors are eligible, the contractors must file a Request for Eligibility Determination with the GSA SmartPay contracting officer. (AFARS 5113.202-90(b)).</p>
      <p id="bILLDj" outputclass="List2">(2) Foreign nationals may be designated as accountable officials - Billing Officials (BOs) and Cardholders (CHs) provided they are direct hires, even though they may not be subject to pecuniary liability under U.S. law. Given the above, purchase cards may be issued to foreign national employees of the Army if they meet accountable official requirements (nomination and training). They are subject to the same disciplinary actions for card misuse as U.S. citizen employees, subject to host country agreements and local law. (DOD Guidebook page A-1 and DOD FMR Volume 5, Chapter 33, paragraph 330204)</p>
      <p id="zIoQkl" outputclass="List2">(3) Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps (JROTC) Instructors are members of the Armed Forces in accordance with AR 145-2, paragraph 4-3, and may be designated micro-purchase procurement authority as GPC cardholders. (FAR Part 1-603-3(b))</p>
      <p id="oLXRDv" outputclass="List1">d. Army cardholders who are ordering officers may be authorized to use the GPC as a payment instrument for orders made against Federal Supply Schedule contracts (FSS), Blanket Purchase Agreements (BPAs), DOD Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) contracts that contain a provision authorizing payment by purchase card, or other contracts when authorized by the contracting officer.</p>
      <p id="YXgFNH" outputclass="List1">e. The GPC may provide a streamlined way of paying for contracts and other contracts than those listed above, but a contracting officer shall first determine that use of the GPC is in the best interest of the government (AFARS 5113.202-90(d)). See FAR Subpart 32.1110(d) and 32.1108 for instructions for use of the appropriate clause when payment under a written contract is made through use of the card. If payment under a written contract is made by the GPC, then the contracting officer shall insert the FAR clause 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party, in solicitations and contracts. Payment by a purchase card may also be made under a contract that does not contain the clause at 52.232-36, to the extent the contractor agrees to accept that method of payment. When the clause at 52.232-36 is included in a solicitation or contract, the contracting officer shall also insert the clause at 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Central Contractor Registration, or 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Other Than Central Contractor Registration, as appropriate.</p>
      <p id="OOIisZ" outputclass="List1">f. The maximum single transaction dollar limit for the GPC for stand-alone purchases shall be the micro-purchase threshold as defined at FAR 2.101, DFARS 213.301(2) and AFARS 5113.270-90. The maximum single transaction dollar limit for contract payments against existing contracts shall be as identified in the contract and shall be within the limits defined in the CH written Delegation of Authority letter or the contracting officer’s warrant. In the event of an emergency need for contingency or humanitarian aid operations, the Executive Office of the President may sign into law an emergency procurement authority allowing increased GPC and convenience check limits and revised procedures in support of contingency and humanitarian aid operations. In such circumstances, the Director of Defense Procurement and Acquisition Policy also may authorize class deviations to allow organizations to deviate from the FAR and DFARS. Such deviations may include raising GPC spending limits. These contingency/emergency purchases require separate training and Delegation of Authority by the A/OPC on contingency/emergency procedures and authority must be issued/granted by the Chief of Contracting or other authorized person.</p>
      <p id="YRQWnC" outputclass="List1">g. The GPC shall be used to pay for government-owned material or government-performed services received from other government sources (e.g. Defense Logistics Agency Document Services, GSA Global, and Defense Logistics Agency).</p>
      <p id="qykaJC" outputclass="List1">h. The GPC shall be used as a method of payment for all commercial training $25,000 and below. The Standard Form (SF) 182 must be completed for training up to $25,000. If training costs exceed $25,000, submit the training requirement to your local contracting office. A separate and dedicated training GPC card must be issued and used to purchase training. These GPC training cards are only used to purchase training requirements.</p>
      <p id="LMbhDO" outputclass="Normal">i.Where it is identified that the purchase is processed via a third party merchant (such as PayPal), the CH should make every attempt to choose another merchant with whom to procure the goods and/or services. If found necessary to procure using a third party payment merchant, the BO must ensure adequate supporting documentation showing that there was a detailed review of the purchase and that the use of the third party payment merchant was unavoidable.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
