<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="AFARS_AppendixBB-103"
         xml:lang="en-US"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title outputclass="Heading 4" class="- topic/title ">
      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">BB–103</ph> Additional Instructions for Contingency Contracting        Functions Outside the Contiguous United States.</title>
   <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
      <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Questions in this checklist should be used by office
            chiefs/directors who are deployed into a theater of operations and are supporting
            contingency missions. The term “contingency contracting” means contracting support
            provided in response to a declared contingency operation in accordance with 10 USC
            101(a)(13) (see also FAR subpart 2.1, Definitions). The support may be provided in a
            mature or immature operational environment, and may be long term or short term. Office
            chiefs/directors shall use these questions to test internal controls for contingency
            contracting functions. Each office chief/director shall complete and submit to his/her
            respective senior contracting official (SCO) at the midpoint during the office
            chief/director’s tour. The SCO will provide feedback to the office chief/director
            relating to the effectiveness of key internal controls. Prior to redeployment, the
            office chief/director shall complete and submit a final checklist to the SCO. The final
            checklist will be retained in the continuity book to serve as a baseline for the next
            office chief/director. In addition, information obtained using the checklist will be
            addressed in the SCO’s annual statement of assurance as prescribed by Army Regulation
            11-2.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
