<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_APPENDIX-AA_3_12">
      <title>3.12
Integrating Proposal into the Contract</title>
      <conbody>
        <p>When planning the acquisition/source selection, coordinate
closely with legal counsel to select the best method to incorporate
beneficial aspects, such as the small business participation
commitment document or above-threshold performance, into the award
document. This is vital when aspects of a proposal are cited or
emphasized in the SSDD because they were identified as beneficial
to the government, especially when the aspects of the proposal
support a price premium paid by the government. The following
methods may be considered:</p>
        <p>
          <b>Use of Attachment<i>.</i>
          </b>  Beneficial
aspects can be captured in a separate document attached to the
PWS/Statement of Work (SOW)/SOO which clearly defines the changes
to requirements based on specific beneficial aspects but leaves the
original PWS/SOW/SOO untouched. </p>
        <p>
          <b>Section C PWS/ SOW/ SOO, System Specifications, Section
H – Special Contract Requirements, or
Other<i>.</i>
          </b> Above-threshold performance may be
captured within the PWS/SOW/SOO, System Specifications, Section H -
Special Contract Requirements, or otherwise captured in the
contract document, depending upon what is proposed. If using this
method, care must be executed not to permanently increase the
government’s requirements in future RFPs unless it is an
intentional decision on the part of the organization to do
so. </p>
        <p> <b>
            <i>Best Practice:</i>
          </b>
          <i>Methods
other than an addendum to the PWS/SOW/SOO addendum may be preferred
due to the possibility of inadvertent inclusion in subsequent
contracts (causing requirements creep). The intent is not to
increase the government’s minimum requirements, but to hold a
particular offeror to their proposal. (The government may
later determine that the minimum requirement should include the
higher performance and include it at time of re-compete).</i>
        </p>
        <p>
          <b>Model Contract Process.</b> The RFP should
discuss the model contract process (if used) in Section L (or
equivalent) to ensure that offerors know that they will be
contractually bound to their proposed above-threshold performance.
Include language in the RFP describing how the government will
capture the promised above-threshold performance prior to award.
Above-threshold performance and significant strengths the
government expects to capture in the contract should be addressed
with the offerors during the discussions process.</p>
        <p>When used, model contracts are typically sent to offerors prior
to closing discussions and submission of Final Proposal Revisions
(FPRs) to include the above-threshold performance that will be
captured upon contract award, thereby ensuring that all parties are
aware of what is expected of the prospective awardee. Ensure that
each offeror’s proposed above-threshold performance is
carefully and correctly incorporated into each model contract and
the final narrative is consistent with the letter to the offeror
requesting the FPR.</p>
        <p>
          <b>Incorporation of Portions of Offeror’s Technical
Proposal by Reference. </b>The RFP should advise
offerors that any part of their proposal can be incorporated by
reference. Only incorporate those portions of an offeror’s
technical proposal that provide benefit to the government.</p>
        <p id="Toc307819167">
          <b>
            <i>
              <u>Awarding the
Contract(s) and Posting to SAM.gov</u>
            </i>
          </b>
        </p>
        <p>After the SSA has signed the source selection decision document,
the PCO will execute and distribute the contract award(s) and post
to SAM.gov in accordance with FAR 5.303, DFARS 205.303, and AFARS
5105.303 Announcement of contract awards. Congressional
notification may be required IAW FAR 5.303 and AFARS 5105.303. For
Section 8(a) Set-Asides, the SBA shall be notified IAW FAR 19.804.
For Small Business Programs, the apparent unsuccessful offerors
shall be provided the pre-award notice required by FAR 15.503.</p>
        <p id="Toc499524465"/>
        <p>
          <b>
            <i>
              <u>Notification to Unsuccessful
Offerors</u>
            </i>
          </b>
        </p>
        <p>The PCO must notify unsuccessful offerors in writing after
contract award or whenever their proposals are eliminated from the
competition within the timeframe identified in Figure 3-5 below.
This chart provides a side-by-side comparison of the differences
between preaward and postaward notices. The type of information
that must be included in the notice will depend upon whether it is
sent before or after contract award.</p>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="3">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="0.5*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.2*"/>
            <colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" colwidth="1.3*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                  <entry/>
                  <entry>
                     <p>
                        <b>PREAWARD NOTICE</b>
                     </p>
                     <p>
                        <b>FAR 15.503(a)</b>
                     </p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p>
                        <b>POSTAWARD NOTICE</b>
                     </p>
                     <p>
                        <b>FAR 15.503(b)</b>
                     </p>
                  </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry id="Toc307819169">
                     <b>Who Must be
Notified?</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>Any offeror whose proposal was excluded from the competitive
range or otherwise eliminated from the competition before contract
award.</entry>
                  <entry>Any offeror whose proposal was in the competitive range but was
not selected for award or who had not received a preaward
notice.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry id="Toc307819170">
                     <b>When Must it be
Sent?</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>Promptly after the offeror’s proposal was eliminated from
the competition.</entry>
                  <entry>Within three days after the date of contract award.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry id="Toc307819171">
                     <b>What is Included in the
Notice?</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p> A summary of the basis for the determination.</p>
                     <p> A statement that the government will not consider any
further proposal revisions from the offeror.</p>
                     <p>

                        <b>NOTE</b>: Small business offerors are entitled to
additional information as well as the timelines associated with
small business offerors as described at FAR <xref format="html"
                              href="http://farsithttp:/farsite.hill.af.mil/reghtml/regs/far2afmcfars/fardfars/far/15.htm#P508_37432"
                              scope="external">Part
15.</xref>
                        <ph id="Hlt498146871"/>503(a)(2) and FAR Part 19.302(d).</p>
                     <p>After contract award, and upon request from an offeror who
previously received a preaward notice, the PCO must provide the
offeror the information normally provided as part of a postaward
notice.</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p> Number of offerors solicited.</p>
                     <p> Number of proposals received.</p>
                     <p> Name(s) and address(s) of awardee(s)</p>
                     <p> Items, quantities, and unit prices of each awardee.
However, unit prices may not be freely releasable under Freedom of
Information Act (FOIA). <b>Therefore, PCOs should
always consult legal counsel prior to disclosing unit
prices.</b>
                     </p>
                     <p> A summary of the reason(s) the offeror’s proposal
was not selected, unless the price information readily reveals the
reason.</p>
                     <p>
                        <sup></sup> Notice of right to request a debriefing.
</p>
                  </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p>
          <i>Figure 3-5: Comparison of Preaward and Postaward
Notices</i>
        </p>
        <p id="Hlt507924486"/>
        <p id="Toc178607324"/>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
