<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_5-1">
    <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">5-1.</ph> Nomination, Selection, and Appointment of Cardholders and
        Billing Officials</title>
    <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. Nomination, selection, and appointment of BOs and CHs are in
            accordance with DOD Charge Card Guidebook Chapters A.1.1 and A.3.
            A/OPCs must receive written and signed approval from the BO/CH’s
            supervisory chain of command before initiating their appointment
            process. BOs must successfully complete the required GPC training to
            be appointed as an Approving/Billing Official. BOs should be in the
            supervisory chain of command of the CH. The BO will not be
            subordinate in grade or rank to their CHs to mitigate undue
            influence. There are no exceptions to this policy.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. CHs must successfully complete the required GPC training to be
            delegated procurement authority <b>prior</b> to receiving their
            card.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. The BO is also a Certifying Officer within the context of the Army
            GPC program, except for pay and confirm proponents. The Certifying
            Officer’s minimum qualifications and eligibility are further
            discussed in DoD FMR Volume 5, Chapter 33. Billing officials are
            responsible for the accuracy of payments, including designation of
            the proper appropriation(s) or other funds certified to the paying
            office and disbursing officer. BOs are financially responsible for
            any illegal, improper, or incorrect payment as a result of an
            inaccurate or misleading certification. To certify GPC invoices for
            payment by DFAS, the BO must be appointed as and accept the
            responsibilities of a Certifying Officer using the DD Form 577
            generated in JAM.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. Approving Officials (AOs) follow pay and confirm procedures and
            are not appointed as Certifying Officers, such as Air Force
            personnel under the Army program.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. GPC Delegation of Authority and appointment letters will clearly
            state the duties of the program participant, any dollar limit of the
            procurement authority (when applicable), and any limitations on the
            scope of authority to be exercised other than those contained in
            applicable law or regulation. All delegates/appointees must
            countersign their letters electronically in JAM to acknowledge they
            understand and concur with their GPC program responsibilities prior
            to establishing any accounts in the bank’s EAS.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">f. A/OPCs will maintain and monitor all delegations, appointments
            letters, and training certificates electronically in JAM. If
            electronic versions are available, the Level 4 A/OPC is not required
            to maintain a hard copy. Audit agencies can request access to PIEE
            modules when required. Ensure military and civilian out-processing
            checklists include a mandatory A/OPC sign-off for BOs and CHs. </p>
        <p outputclass="List1">g. <b>Receiving a GPC</b>. Standard practice is to have the card
            mailed to the CH’s work address in accordance with the GSA
            SmartPay®3 contract. Using a CH’s home address may be a fraud
            indicator and should not be a normal practice. However, there are
            situations where an alternate address, including the CH’s home
            address, may be valid. Whether the card is mailed to the CH’s work
            address or an alternate address, the CH must maintain the physical
            security of the card. Examples of alternate address uses include,
            but are not limited to, the following:</p>
        <p>1) When an A/OPC wants all cards mailed to the A/OPC’s work address,
            and then the A/OPC provides each card to the new CH’s work
            location.</p>
        <p>2) When the A/OPC feels it is more reliable to have the card mailed
            to the A/OPC’s work address and then sent by express mail to a CH’s
            work address overseas.</p>
        <p>3) When the organization has a policy that all cards will be sent to
            the work address of the responsible BO, who will then deliver each
            card to the CH in person or to the CH’s work address.</p>
        <p>4) When the CH will not be at the work location (duty station) for an
            extended period (COVID-19 stay-at-home orders would be one such
            example), the CH’s home address could be used. If the CH’s home
            address is used for card delivery, a note or memorandum for record
            must be added to the account notes stating why the home address was
            used.</p>
        <p id="Toc101947046"/>
        <p id="Toc118789384">Table 5-1: Delegations and Appointments for each
            Program Role</p>
        <table>
            <tgroup cols="4">
                <colspec colnum="1" colwidth="1.9*" colname="col1"/>
                <colspec colnum="2" colwidth="0.7*" colname="col2"/>
                <colspec colnum="3" colwidth="0.7*" colname="col3"/>
                <colspec colnum="4" colwidth="0.7*" colname="col4"/>
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <b>Role</b> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <b>Delegation of Procurement Authority Letter
                            Required</b> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <p> 
                        <b>GPC</b> 
                     </p> 
                     <p> 
                        <b>Appointment Letter
                            Required</b> 
                     </p> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <p> 
                        <b>DD Form 577</b> 
                     </p> 
                     <p> 
                        <b>Required</b>
                            </p> 
                  </entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Level 1</entry>
                        <entry>No</entry>
                        <entry>Yes</entry>
                        <entry>No</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Level 2 Component Program Manager</entry>
                        <entry>No</entry>
                        <entry>Yes</entry>
                        <entry>No</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Level 3 A/OPC <b>with</b> Authority to Delegate
                            Procurement Authority</entry>
                        <entry>Yes</entry>
                        <entry>Yes</entry>
                        <entry>No</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>Level 3 A/OPC <b>without</b> Authority to</p>
                            <p>Delegate Procurement Authority</p> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry>No</entry>
                        <entry>Yes</entry>
                        <entry>No</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Level 4 A/OPC <b>with</b> Authority to Delegate
                            Procurement Authority</entry>
                        <entry>Yes</entry>
                        <entry>Yes</entry>
                        <entry>No</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>Level 4 A/OPC <b>without</b> Authority to</p>
                            <p>Delegate Procurement Authority</p> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry>No</entry>
                        <entry>Yes</entry>
                        <entry>No</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Resource Managers (All Levels)</entry>
                        <entry>No</entry>
                        <entry>No</entry>
                        <entry>No</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Billing Officials who are Certifying
                            Officers</entry>
                        <entry>No</entry>
                        <entry>Yes</entry>
                        <entry>Yes</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Certifying Officers</entry>
                        <entry>No</entry>
                        <entry>No</entry>
                        <entry>Yes</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>Pay and Confirm Officials</p>
                            <p>(Departmental Accountable Official (DAO))</p> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry>No</entry>
                        <entry>Yes</entry>
                        <entry>No</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Cardholders</entry>
                        <entry>Yes</entry>
                        <entry>Yes</entry>
                        <entry>No</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
    </conbody>
</concept>
