<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_4-1">
    <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">4-1.</ph> Mandatory Training</title>
    <conbody>
        <p>Mandatory training is divided into initial online training and formal
            training. Prior to assuming their duties, program personnel will
            complete the GPC training appropriate to their position. The
            training requirements for CHs and BOs trained at a previous duty
            station may be abbreviated or waived, in writing, as determined by
            the A/OPC. A/OPCs will retain copies of initial and refresher
            training certificates by uploading the certificates in PIEE.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. Level 4 A/OPCs, in coordination with the appropriate subject
            matter experts, will provide in-person initial GPC training for all
            new BOs and CHs prior to using the GPC. Each Level 4 A/OPC is
            responsible for providing training to CHs and BOs utilizing the Army
            Master Training slides and GPC program location-specific slides.
            Training methods can be classroom, virtual or electronic.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. Resource Managers should assist the A/OPC in developing or
            providing training on funding document maintenance, Anti-Deficiency
            Act, and the certification and payment process.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. Small Business Specialists should assist the A/OPC in developing
            or providing training on FAR 19, Small Business procedures and
            achieving small business goals.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. Hazardous Materials Management Process Team should assist the
            A/OPC in developing or providing training on the procurement,
            maintenance, and disposal of hazardous materials.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. GPC training requirements are listed in Tables 4-1 and 4-2. Table
            4-1 lists all mandatory training which must be completed prior to
            issuance of an appointment letter and/or establishment of a GPC
            account. Table 4-2 lists all recommended training as necessary to
            carry out GPC duties. Proof of training must be documented and
            retained by the A/OPC in PIEE/JAM. CHs, BOs, and A/OPCs are required
            to complete mandated initial and refresher training. U.S. Bank’s
            Access Online web-based training is optional. The initial in person
            GPC training provided by the Level 4 A/OPC will cover training on
            the use of U.S. Bank’s Access Online system (e.g., initiating and
            resolving disputes, reconciling and approving statements, certifying
            invoices, and uploading supporting documentation).</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">f. <b>Refresher Training</b>. As required in DoD FMR Volume 5,
            Chapter 5, Paragraph 050304, appointed Certifying Officers must
            complete an approved Certifying Officer Legislation training course
            before their appointment and refresher training annually. All
            A/OPCs, BOs, and CHs must complete refresher training every two
            years. The local command may require refresher training more
            frequently to satisfy their training or operational needs. <xref href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/asda/dpc/ce/pc/training.html"
               format="html"
               scope="external">DPC GPC One-Pagers</xref> are “quick start guides”
            that address various GPC policies and systems. Several One-Pagers
            have been developed to address items related to SmartPay® 3 systems.
            See the <xref href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/asda/dpc/ce/pc/training.html"
               format="html"
               scope="external">GPC Training page</xref> for links.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">g. By signing the appointment letter in JAM, CHs and BOs confirm that
            they have received the initial GPC program training and understand
            their roles and responsibilities and the penalties associated with
            misuse of the card.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">h. All initial and refresher training certificates will be uploaded
            into PIEE/JAM. Attendance at the annual GSA SmartPay Conference is
            mandatory for all Level 3 and 4 A/OPCs, as funding permits.
            Attendance is mandatory for all Level 3 and 4 A/OPCs if the GSA
            SmartPay Conference is held virtually.</p>
        <p id="Toc101947041">Table 4-1: Mandatory Training for A/OPCs, Billing
            Officials and Cardholders</p>
        <table>
            <tgroup cols="5">
                <colspec colnum="1" colwidth="1.2*" colname="col1"/>
                <colspec colnum="2" colwidth="0.6*" colname="col2"/>
                <colspec colnum="3" colwidth="0.6*" colname="col3"/>
                <colspec colnum="4" colwidth="0.7*" colname="col4"/>
                <colspec colnum="5" colwidth="1.7*" colname="col5"/>
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry namest="col1" nameend="col5"> 
                     <b>Mandatory Training</b> 
                  </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <b>Course Name</b> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <b>Course Number</b> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <b>Role Level</b> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <b>Frequency</b> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry>
                            <p> 
                        <b>Course Offeror/</b> 
                     </p>
                            <p> 
                        <b>Hyperlink</b> 
                     </p>
                        </entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry>DoD Government-wide Commercial Purchase Card
                            Overview</entry>
                        <entry>CLG 0010</entry>
                        <entry>All</entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>Initial/</p> 
                     <p> Biennial</p> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>DAU</p> 
                     <p> 
                        <xref href="https://icatalog.dau.edu/onlinecatalog/courses.aspx?crs_id=12372"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external">CLG 0010 DoD Governmentwide
                            Commercial Purchase Card</xref> 
                     </p> 
                  </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Certifying Officer Training for GPC
                            Payments</entry>
                        <entry>CLG 006</entry>
                        <entry>A/BOs</entry>
                        <entry>Annual</entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>DAU</p> 
                     <p> 
                        <xref href="https://icatalog.dau.edu/onlinecatalog/courses.aspx?crs_id=2057"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external">CLG 006 Certifying Officer
                            Legislation Training</xref> 
                     </p> 
                  </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>Overview of</p> 
                     <p> Acquisition Ethics</p> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry>ACQ 0030</entry>
                        <entry>All</entry>
                        <entry>Initial</entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>DAU</p> 
                     <p> 
                        <xref href="https://icatalog.dau.edu/onlinecatalog/courses.aspx?crs_id=12650"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external">ACQ 0030 Overview of Acquisition
                            Ethics</xref> 
                     </p> 
                  </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>Insights On Demand (IOD)</p> 
                     <p> A/BO Case
                            Management Course</p> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry>Web-based Training within AXOL</entry>
                        <entry>A/BOs</entry>
                        <entry>Initial (<i>not required prior to issuance of a
                            managing account)</i> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <p> 
                        <i>Available in</i> 
                     </p> 
                     <p>U.S. Bank</p>
                            <p> 
                        <xref href="https://wbt.access-online.com/Welcomer.aspx"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external">Access® Online web-based
                            training</xref> 
                     </p> 
                  </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>Insights on Demand (IOD)</p> 
                     <p> A/OPC Case
                            Management Modules</p> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry>Web-based Training within AXOL</entry>
                        <entry>A/OPCs</entry>
                        <entry>Initial (<i>not required prior to
                            appointment)</i> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <p> 
                        <i>Available in</i> 
                     </p> 
                     <p>U.S. Bank</p>
                            <p> 
                        <xref href="https://wbt.access-online.com/Welcomer.aspx"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external">Access® Online web-based
                            training</xref> 
                     </p> 
                  </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Army Master Training/Local GPC Training</entry>
                        <entry>In Person</entry>
                        <entry>All</entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>Initial/</p> 
                     <p> Refresher</p> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry>Army and Organization/Activity Slides</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Simplified Acquisition Procedures</entry>
                        <entry>CLC 005</entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>A/OPCs;</p> 
                     <p> A/BOs and CHs <b>spending
                            over the MPT</b> 
                     </p> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry>Initial</entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>DAU</p> 
                     <p> 
                        <xref href="https://icatalog.dau.edu/onlinecatalog/courses.aspx?crs_id=229"
                              format="html"
                              scope="external">CLC 005 Simplified Acquisition
                            Procedures</xref> 
                     </p> 
                  </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>SOP Ordering Official Training</entry>
                        <entry>UP TO $25,000</entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>A/OPCs;</p> 
                     <p> A/BOs and CHs <b>spending
                            over the MPT</b> 
                     </p> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry>Initial</entry>
                        <entry>Command Specific</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
    </conbody>
</concept>
