<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_APPENDIX-AA_2_1">
      <title>2.1 Conduct Acquisition Planning</title>
      <conbody>
        <p>
          <b>Acquisition Planning. </b>Acquisition
planning should start when an agency identifies a need for
supplies, construction and/or services. When practical, utilize an
integrated product team (IPT) approach to develop the acquisition
plan and/or strategy as required. This early teaming effort may
reduce false starts and resulting delays that frequently accompany
the preparation of a complex procurement. <i>(Reference DoD Source
Selection Procedures 2.1.1)</i>
        </p>
        <p> <b>
            <i>Best Practice:</i>
          </b>
          <i>Some of the
decisions/determinations made during the planning phase are key and
will impact the entire acquisition from source selection through
contract administration. Including key stakeholders, such as
contract administrators, small business professionals (SBPs),
Contracting Officer’s Representatives (CORs), Quality
Assurance (QA) and Property Administrator, will help to ensure
consideration of issues that may impact the requirements,
performance, and acquisition strategy as a whole.</i>
        </p>
        <p>
          <b>Risk Assessment<i>.</i>
          </b> Risk analysis is a
critical component of acquisition planning, and the market research
results should be a primary consideration as part of this analysis.
Early identification, formation, and direct involvement of the
acquisition team (and key stakeholders) will help to ensure a
comprehensive understanding of the requirements and any marketplace
influences on risk and risk mitigation. <i>(Reference DoD Source
Selection Procedures 2.1.1.2)</i>
        </p>
        <p>
          <b>Peer Reviews.</b> See AFARS 5101.170 for Preaward
peer reviews. Planning and including realistic time allowances for
all requisite reviews when establishing milestone schedules, is
essential to the success of your acquisition.</p>
        <p>
          <b>Market Research<i>.</i>
          </b> Market research is a
shared responsibility and continuous process conducted by the PM,
requiring activity, PCO, SBP, and other acquisition team members
which directly influences how the acquisition strategy and source
selection process is shaped. <i>(Reference DoD Source Selection
Procedures 2.1.2 and AFARS 5110.002)</i>
        </p>
        <p>Some techniques you may use in conducting market research
include:</p>
        <p> Use general sources of information available from the
marketplace, other DoD/ government agencies, and the internet.</p>
        <p> Contact knowledgeable individuals, such as SBPs,
regarding market capabilities and business practices.</p>
        <p> Review the results of recent market research for same
or similar requirements.</p>

        <p> Query government and/or commercial databases (e.g.,
Dynamic Small Business Search <xref format="html"
               href="https://dsbs.sba.gov/search/dsp_dsbs.cfm"
               scope="external">https://dsbs.sba.gov/search/dsp_dsbs.cfm</xref>,
System for Award Management (SAM.Gov); <xref format="html" href="https://sam.gov/content/home" scope="external">https://sam.gov/content/home</xref>.)</p>
        <p> Conduct industry engagement/industry days in
coordination with supporting Small Business Office.</p>
        <p> Prepare a draft Request for Proposal (RFP) and ensure
review by a SBP prior to issuing. <i>(DoD Source Selection
Procedures 2.1.2.3)</i>
        </p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
