<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-AA_Chapter-5_Appendix-E_chapter_9">
        <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">CHAPTER 9</ph>
Templates – Sections L &amp; M</title>
        <conbody>
          <p>
            <b>&lt;Green&gt;</b> = Instructions (Delete before
release of solicitation)</p>
          <p>
            <b>&lt;Blue&gt;</b> = Fill-ins (Remove brackets)</p>
          <p>USE: This document provides several tailorable narratives for
use in Section L and Section M (or equivalent). These narratives
support competitive source selection solicitations for the
acquisition of intellectual property, data deliverables and
associated license rights. Section L communicates to offerors what
they are to propose in response to the solicitation. Section M
describes to offerors how their proposals will be evaluated in
accordance with the solicitation.</p>
          <p>One or more of the tailorable narratives can be included in a
solicitation based on the requirement and desired evaluation
criteria. If more than one tailorable narrative is selected for
inclusion in a solicitation, careful review may be needed to ensure
there are no overlapping or conflicting evaluation criteria
included in the solicitation. <b>At a minimum, contracting
officers are required to tailor the content of the narrative below
to reflect the specific requirement both in terms of desired
proposal format and detailed evaluation factors.</b>
          </p>
          <p>Offerors may be granted one or more strengths for: 1) delivering
technical data with license rights that facilitate future
competitive procurement; 2) delivering items that are available in
the commercial market that can be procured by other contractors in
a future competitive procurement (even without providing detailed
technical information on these commercially available items);
and/or 3) delivering a Product Support/Sustainment Strategy that
includes Government purpose rights (licensing technical data to
alternate contractors who will be able to participate in future
competitive procurements). <b>If this is applicable to your
solicitation, state this in sections L&amp;M.</b>
          </p>
          <p>Offerors will not be given an unacceptable rating in the
evaluation of the solicitation or be considered ineligible for
contract award, based on the offeror not proposing broader license
rights than the Government is entitled in accordance with
applicable DFARS citations (DFARS 252.227-7013, DFARS 252.227-7014,
or 252.227-7015).</p>
          <p>Notes:</p>
          <p> The Government may evaluate proposals on how well the
offeror’s Product Support/Sustainment Strategy facilitates
the Government’s objective to affordably sustain and compete
procurement of end items and spare and/or repair parts.</p>
          <p> The Product Support/Sustainment Strategy proposal
should document proposed and negotiated IP, data deliverables and
associated license rights that will be priced as contract
deliverable(s) under CLINs within Section B in the solicitation and
final contract.</p>
          <p> If warranty is applicable, incorporate as a priced
CLIN.</p>
          <p>Sample Section L and Section M language can be found below.
Remember, use only what is applicable and tailor the language, as
required, for the respective requirement.</p>
        </conbody>
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
      </concept>
