<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_5-4">
   <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">5-4.</ph> Account Termination</title>
   <conbody>
      <p outputclass="List1">a. Only cardholders with a continuing need to use the GPC will retain their
card and appointment. At least 60 calendar days prior to reassignment,
separation, or retirement, the CH or BO should notify the A/OPC of their change
in status and begin to transition their duties and files over to another
appointed organization representative. The BO must advise the Level 4 A/OPC when
a CH no longer has a continuing need to use the card or when the CH transfers to
other duties or organizations, retires, or leaves Government service.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">b. The Level 4 A/OPC will terminate the CH’s or BO’s appointment in JAM and
close the account in the servicing bank. The physical card must be destroyed,
and its destruction must be confirmed in writing. When a cardholder account is
terminated or closed, the cardholder will surrender the GPC and submit the
account documentation to the BO. The BO will perform an in-depth surveillance of
the cardholder’s records within 30 calendar days of termination or closure.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">c. The BO will ensure all outstanding transactions (charges and/or credits)
have cleared the bank and the card has been destroyed. When a BO vacates their
assignment, and a new BO is assigned, all CH accounts remain active under the
existing managing account. The departing BO must reconcile their account with
Financial Management prior to vacating the position. When a BO requests
termination of their managing account, all CHs will surrender their GPC and
submit the account documentation to the BO. The BO will perform an in-depth
surveillance of the CH’s records within 30 calendar days of termination. When
all transactions (charges and/or credits) have cleared the bank and the card(s)
has been destroyed, the BO will process removal of the remaining funds and
submit a request for account termination to the A/OPC.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">d. Military and civilian out-processing checklists must include a mandatory
A/OPC sign-off for BOs and CHs.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
