<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_APPENDIX-AA_c-6">
        <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">C-6</ph> Comparing Key Characteristics</title>
        <conbody>
          <table>
            <tgroup cols="2">
              <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
              <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
              <tbody>
                <row id="s6_key">
                  <entry nameend="col2" namest="col1">
                    <b>Tradeoff vs LPTA Methods of Source
Selection</b>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <b>TRADEOFF</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <b>LPTA</b>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <b>SUMMARY OVERVIEW</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <b>SUMMARY OVERVIEW</b>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <p>A Tradeoff process is appropriate when it may be in the best
interest of the government to:</p>
                    <p>a) consider award to other than the lowest-priced Offeror
or:</p>
                    <p>b) other than the highest technically rated Offeror.</p>
                    <p>Therefore, if the ability to distinguish between the quality of
non-cost/price factors and cost/price factors within
Offerors’ proposals and give credit (assign strengths) for
aspects which provide a benefit to the government and for which it
might be willing to pay more for (premium), then the tradeoff
process is the best approach.</p>
                    <p> Less definitive</p>
                    <p> More complex and time-consuming development work</p>
                    <p> Greater performance risk/integration risk</p>
                    <p> Technical and past performance considerations more
important than price</p>
                    <p> Price based on performance-based approach</p>
                    <p> Past performance is critical in reducing risk</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <p>An LPTA process is appropriate when best value is expected to
result from selection of the technically acceptable proposal with
the lowest price.</p>
                    <p>Award is made to the responsible contractor who is technically
acceptable and has the lowest evaluated price.</p>
                    <p> government design or stable requirements, clearly
definable</p>
                    <p> Risk of unsuccessful performance is minimal</p>
                    <p> No mission-related reason to pay a premium for quality
or performance exceeding the acceptable level</p>
                    <p> Only use LPTA when able to clearly define and strictly
evaluate Offerors’ proposals based on technical
acceptability</p>
                    <p> Technical evaluation lends itself to
acceptable/unacceptable basis</p>
                    <p> When requirement is easy to price</p>
                    <p> When past performance is not critical to reducing
risk</p>
                    <p> When a <u>“standard of proof”</u> is
identifiable for each evaluation criteria</p>
                  </entry>
                </row>
              </tbody>
            </tgroup>
          </table>
          <table>
            <tgroup cols="2">
              <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
              <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
              <tbody>
                <row>
                  <entry nameend="col2" namest="col1">
                    <b>Tradeoff vs LPTA Methods of Source
Selection</b>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <b>TRADEOFF</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <b>LPTA</b>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <b>Encourages Innovation</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <b>Innovation Not Needed, Encouraged, nor
Rewarded</b>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>Proposals can offer various technical approaches that may be of
benefit to the government and the competitive environment should
encourage this depending upon what the solicitation places the most
value/importance upon.</entry>
                  <entry>LPTA inherently places the most value on the technical
acceptability to provide known, stable requirements for the lowest
price and the government will not benefit from/is not willing to
pay for above threshold performance.</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <b>Maximum Flexibility</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <b>Minimum Flexibility</b>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <p>The tradeoff process provides the most discretion/flexibility
when it comes to the award decision.</p>
                    <p>The Source Selection Evaluation Board (SSEB) can identify
strengths within proposals that may benefit the government and
increase the value of the proposal.</p>
                    <p>The Source Selection Authority can give consideration to the
benefit/value of non-cost/price factor differences between Offerors
to determine if those differences justify paying the cost/price
differential between them.</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <p>Tradeoffs not permitted – intended to be a simple
selection process based upon technical acceptability/lowest price.
</p>
                    <p>Use a checklist or form to document the technical evaluation (1)
to ensure the requirements/criteria/standards are suitable for this
process; and (2) enable the offeror to provide the standard of
proof and determine whether the offeror should be rated as
acceptable or unacceptable for that item.</p>
                    <p>- You must be able to evaluate everything included in your
“checklist” using an <u>objective</u> standard of
proof.</p>
                    <p>- By associating minimum standards with relative risks for
execution of each task, risk of unsuccessful performance can be
mitigated or decreased.</p>
                    <p>-The offeror is required to provide clear proof that they meet
the requirement (and the government determines what the standard of
proof is and announces it in the RFP).</p>
                    <p>No additional “credit” can be given for exceeding
established standards.</p>
                  </entry>
                </row>
              </tbody>
            </tgroup>
          </table>
          <table>
            <tgroup cols="2">
              <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
              <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
              <tbody>
                <row>
                  <entry nameend="col2" namest="col1">
                    <b>Tradeoff vs LPTA Methods of Source
Selection</b>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <b>TRADEOFF</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <b>LPTA</b>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <b>Competitive Range and Discussions</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <b>Competitive Range and Discussions</b>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <p>52.215-1, Instructions to Offerors – Competitive
Acquisition enables the government to provide notice to prospective
Offerors of the intent to make award without discussions as well as
limit the number of proposals in the competitive range to the
number at which an efficient competition can be conducted.</p>
                    <p>Contracting officer can provide the opportunity for offerors to
eliminate weaknesses and deficiencies through the discussion
process.</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <p>If few or no acceptable offers are received or proposals
indicate that the requirements are misunderstood, the contracting
officer may set a competitive range and conduct discussions with
technically unacceptable Offerors and provide them the opportunity
to eliminate deficiencies.</p>
                    <p>A proposal rated technically acceptable cannot be further
improved through the discussion process. However, all offerors in
the competitive range must be afforded the opportunity to submit a
revised proposal after discussions have concluded. See
<i>Commercial Design Group, Inc.,</i> B-400923.4, August 6, 2009,
CPD ¶ 157.</p>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <b>Enables Meaningful Comparisons</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <b>No Comparisons Permitted</b>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>Tradeoff allows for meaningful comparisons and discrimination
between and among competing proposals.</entry>
                  <entry>If some, but not all, evaluation criteria fit the LPTA
requirements, a combination approach may be a consideration. If a
combination approach is used, comparison is allowable only for
those factors based on tradeoff.</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <b>Evaluation is More Complex But Can Be Simplified Using a
Hybrid Approach When Appropriate</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <b>Evaluation is Straightforward</b>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <p>By using a combination approach, the government can simplify
some aspects of the evaluation where criteria are clear, can be
evaluated on an acceptable/unacceptable basis, and a clear standard
of proof can be linked to each one.</p>
                    <p>Examples of may include professional qualifications, special
certifications, licensing.</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <p>Well-written evaluation criteria and “standard of
proof” that the Offeror must provide to satisfy each, should
enable the evaluation to be conducted in an efficient and
straightforward manner.</p>
                    <p>If not all evaluation criteria is clear and objective with an
objective standard of proof for evaluation, a combination approach
may be appropriate.</p>
                  </entry>
                </row>
              </tbody>
            </tgroup>
          </table>
          <table>
            <tgroup cols="2">
              <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
              <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
              <tbody>
                <row>
                  <entry nameend="col2" namest="col1">
                    <b>Tradeoff vs LPTA Methods of Source
Selection</b>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <b>TRADEOFF</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <b>LPTA</b>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <b>Performance Risk and Past Performance
Assessment</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <b>Past Performance Rated Acceptable or
Unacceptable</b>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>In the case of an offeror without a record of recent/relevant
past performance, or for whom information on past performance is
not available, or so sparse that no meaningful past performance
rating can be assigned, you must evaluate the offeror’s lack
of past performance as “Neutral Confidence”, having no
favorable or unfavorable impact on the evaluation.</entry>
                  <entry>
                    <p>Past performance shall be evaluated unless waived. However, a
comparative assessment is not allowed. When using LPTA, unknown
past performance shall be considered acceptable.</p>
                    <p>- You may utilize a combination approach where past performance
is evaluated as part of the tradeoff and technical approach is
assessed on acceptable/unacceptable basis.</p>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <b>Planning Considerations</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <b>Planning Considerations</b>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <p>The tradeoff methodology generally involves in-depth planning
and more time and resources.</p>
                    <p>Tradeoffs must be clearly documented and supported.</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <p>The LPTA process is not necessarily faster.</p>
                    <p>Requires significant up-front time investment to clearly
identify the critical technical requirements (standards) for
evaluation and the standard of proof (evidence of the
offeror’s compliance with the requirement) to determine
whether each one is met (technical acceptability).</p>
                    <p>
                        <b>
                           <i>The time investment is key to establishing whether
the requirement is suitable for LPTA, and if so, setting up the
procurement for success.</i>
                        </b>
                    </p>
                  </entry>
                </row>
              </tbody>
            </tgroup>
          </table>
        </conbody>
      </concept>
