<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_APPENDIX-AA_e-2_1">
          <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">E-2.1</ph> Conduct Acquisition Planning</title>
          <conbody>
            <p>The Program Managers and MATDEVs are required to document an IP
strategy for all program types covered by DoDI 5010.44,
Intellectual Property Acquisition and Licensing, starting at the
Materiel Development Decision (MDD) and out through the declaration
of a Program of Record (POR). The IP strategy is summarized in the
Acquisition Strategy/Plan or SAMP and identifies the
program’s comprehensive approach to managing the IP, data
deliverables, and license rights requirements that will affect the
program’s cost, schedule, and performance throughout the
acquisition lifecycle. The IP strategy evolves over time and should
continuously reflect the current status and desired goals of the
program which is achieving greater competition and more affordable
sustainment costs within the business objectives of the program.
Acquisition planning includes all members of the IPT, to include
PM, Engineering, Scientists, PCOs, Legal Counsel, etc.</p>
            <p>Defense Acquisition University courses and learning modules to
assist in Intellectual Property acquisitions are listed below. The
courses are current as of the publication date of this appendix,
please reference
https://www.dau.edu/blogs/dau-intellectual-property-ip-and-data-rights-resources
for additional offerings.</p>
            <p>
              <b>Courses/Learning Assets</b>
            </p>
            <p>CLM 002, Intellectual Property (IP) Valuation</p>
            <p>CLE 068, Intellectual Property and Data Rights</p>
            <p>CLE 069, Technology Transfer</p>
            <p>CLE 019, Modular Open Systems Approach</p>
            <p>CLM 071, Introduction to Data Management</p>
            <p>CLM 072, Data Management Strategy Development</p>
            <p>CLM 073, Data Management Planning System</p>
            <p>CLM 075, Data Acquisition</p>
            <p>CLM 076, Data Markings</p>
            <p>CLM 077, Data Management Protection and Storage</p>
            <p>LOG 2150, Technical Data Management</p>
            <p>CACQ 008, Foundational IP Credential.</p>
            <p>CACQ 011: Foundational Software Acquisition Management
Credential</p>
            <p>CON 0180: Data Rights</p>
            <p>
              <b>
                <u>IP Strategy</u>
              </b>
            </p>
            <p>When developing the comprehensive IP strategy and the capability
requirements for performance and sustainment, consider the
following in respect to IP, data deliverables, and associated
license rights (for additional information consult Army Directive
2018-26, Enabling Modernization Through the Management of
Intellectual Property.):</p>
            <p>1. Develop an IP strategy that accounts for both short-term and
long-term needs, covering the full lifecycle of the system or
service. The IP strategy should continuously be assessed (e.g.,
sustainment reviews (SR)) and updated to reflect current status
(i.e. evolving technology, reduced program cost or schedule, etc.)
and desired goals/objectives. At a minimum, customize IP strategies
based on the common, shared, and unique characteristics of the
system and its components: system architecture and interfaces:
product support/sustainment strategy: organic industrial base
strategy of the DoD Component concerned; whether the item can be
found in the commercial market: and whether the standard commercial
licensing terms meet DoD needs. (NOTE: These can be considered
strengths during a tradeoff, but cannot be mandated.)</p>
            <p>2. Determine the appropriate sustainment approach to use for the
IP strategy. The strategy should focus on achieving greater
competition and more affordable sustainment costs. Anticipate the
impact of sustainment costs within program business objectives over
the entire system or service lifecycle. (NOTE: This can be
considered a strength during a tradeoff, but cannot be
mandated.)</p>
            <p>3. Determine what kind of data (e.g., form, fit, and function
data), software, and associated license rights are required/desired
for all stages of the acquisition life cycle, including operation,
maintenance, installation, and training (OMIT); modernization; and
sustainment. The IP strategy should be customized to meet specific
sustainment needs of the program (i.e., data deliverable and any
required computer software source code).</p>
            <p>4. The Government should consider the following techniques for
securing data/software and associated/corresponding license
rights:</p>
            <p>a. Consider including contract provisions providing for the
transfer of a detailed data/software package with the corresponding
license rights to the Government if the original contractor goes
out of business or drops the particular item from production.</p>
            <p>b. Consider including data escrow provisions (see DFARS PGI
227.7203-2(b)(2)(ii)(D)).</p>
            <p>5. Describe the Modular Open System Approach (MOSA) objectives
that drive modularity decisions to support the operational and
lifecycle needs. Describe how IP, and related matters, necessary to
support the program’s use of modular open systems approaches,
in accordance with 10 U.S.C. Sections §§ 3771-3775 and
§§4401 - 4403, will be addressed. This includes providing
guidance for how solicitations and contracts will:</p>
            <p>a. Identify and require all major systems interfaces to be based
on widely supported and consensus-based standards (if available and
suitable), which are preferably non-proprietary.</p>
            <p>b. Include requirements to acquire the appropriate IP rights in
such major systems interfaces.</p>
            <p>c. Include appropriate requirements for other non-major systems
interfaces (e.g., interfaces necessary for segregation and
reintegration activities).</p>
            <p>d. Include request for Government Purpose Rights, when
appropriate, for Circuit Card Assemblies in support of organic
industrial base (OIB) DSOR and DSOS capabilities.</p>
            <p>6. Appropriately reflect the IP strategy in both the
solicitation and the resultant contract. Contents of both documents
should include the IP, data deliverables, and associated license
rights necessary to accomplish program objectives.</p>
            <p>7. Request that offerors propose their own sustainment
transition plan (to transition sustainment from their organization
to the Government or another contractor) as an evaluation factor
(technical sub factor – Supportability and
Maintenance).</p>
            <p>8. The Government should only seek the IP, data deliverables,
and associated license rights necessary to support the mission of
the program. In some instances, where offerors are willing to
provide the Government with additional license rights to technical
data and software, such additional costs may not be cost effective.
Having an evaluation factor in a competitive procurement
environment may drive down the associated costs for broader
technical data or software license rights.</p>
            <p>9. Consult with a Government IP attorney on IP, data
deliverables, and associated license rights. Statutes and
regulations related to technical data, software, and associated
rights are set forth in 10 USC § Chapter 275 (and DFARS
227.7102-1, DFARS 227.7103-1, DFARS 227.7202-1, and DFARS
227.7203-1). The statute and DFARS regulations should be read
carefully before procuring any technical data or software. Ensure
the Government receives sufficient rights in technical data and
software to enable organic or competitively established sustainment
of items.</p>
            <p>IP Strategy Checklist</p>
            <table>
              <tgroup cols="2">
                <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="0.6*"/>
                <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.4*"/>
                <tbody>
                  <row>
                    <entry nameend="col2" namest="col1">
                      <b>IP Strategy Checklist*</b>
                    </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry>
                      <b>Phases of Acquisition</b>
                    </entry>
                    <entry>
                      <b>Key IP Management and Acquisition Activities,
Considerations, Resources</b>
                    </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry>
                      <b>Pre-Solicitation</b>
                    </entry>
                    <entry>
                      <p>1. Align the initial design studies to the major functional
elements</p>
                      <p>2. Establish a clear understanding of the IP, data deliverables,
associated license rights requirements. If it is likely that an
Offeror may propose IP that was not developed at private expense,
the Contracting Officer should engage with DCAA to determine what
assistance can be provided to verify funding source/existing data
rights, specific to that requirement.</p>
                      <p>3. Contracting Officer/Specialist serves as Business Adviser in
development of acquisition documentation.</p>
                      <p>4. PM and Contracting Officer/Specialist conduct market
research, including through the Defense Innovation Marketplace</p>
                      <p>5. Write an IP strategy for the system modules that align with
Modular Open Systems Approach (MOSA): Technology developed all/part
by USG Funding, get delivery of what you're going to pay for (in
native format, if it seems too early or costly to reformat the data
for DoD’s usual standard) <b>(Guidance Intellectual
Property Strategy - 2015</b> (IP Strategy Brochure_Final
2-10-15.pdf (dau.edu) <b>and Army Implementation Guidance,
Appendix C</b> (requires CAC)<b>)</b>
                      </p>
                      <p>6. Verify that the strategy includes an approach for the
remainder of modules that can be competitively acquired under the
Restricted-Proprietary Model: Technology developed entirely at
private expense <b>(IP Strategy Brochure 2015</b> (IP
Strategy Brochure_Final 2-10-15.pdf (dau.edu) <b>and Army
Implementation Guidance, Appendix C</b> (requires
CAC)<b>)</b>
                      </p>
                      <p>7. Verify the IP strategy accounts for both short-term and
long-term needs, covering the full life cycle of the system.</p>
                      <p>8. Incorporate Modular Open Systems Approach (MOSA)
considerations into Acquisition Strategy.</p>
                    </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry>
                      <b>Solicitation</b>
                    </entry>
                    <entry>
                      <p>1. The solicitation should clearly and effectively communicate
and prioritize IP goals.</p>
                      <p>2. Be transparent in articulating intellectual property; data
deliverables; associated license rights requirements; Government
operation, maintenance, installation, and training (OMIT);
modernization; and sustainment objectives.</p>
                      <p>3. The Performance Work Statement (PWS)/Statement of Work (SOW)
should identify the license rights and data deliverables (including
OMIT data) required and be linked to CDRL(s). The offeror may need
to provide costs/prices, if separately priced.</p>
                      <p>a. License Rights and data deliverables (including OMIT data)
described under CDRLs should comprise a complete package (or as
much as needed) of all technical data and computer software for
enabling maintenance of an entire system.</p>
                      <p>4. Request that the offeror identify restrictions on license
rights.</p>
                      <p>5. Incorporate delivery requirements and require offerors to
assert their specific restrictions on license rights.</p>
                      <p>6. Required data or software must be a deliverable, assigned to
a CLIN.</p>
                      <p>7. Incorporate appropriate provisions and contract clauses.</p>
                      <p>8. For commercial technologies, request information similar to
that required in the DFARS listing and assertion requirements
provision (DFARS 252.227-7017) and include CDRL requirements for
copies of commercial and negotiated licenses in the
solicitation.</p>
                      <p>9. Request that offerors propose their own sustainment
transition plans. Suggestion: Use sustainment transition plans as
an evaluation factor.</p>
                      <p>10. Use the deferred ordering and deferred delivery clauses (but
don’t overestimate its power!) Should not be used in place of
proper acquisition planning. Acquisition planning for the data
deliverables, and incorporate in the solicitation.</p>
                      <p>11. Consider incorporating statement for trademark license
rights in solicitations and contracts *Army Source Selection
Supplement, Section H-2.3, Develop the Request for Proposal</p>
                      <p>12. Consider adding in Section H – Special Contract
Requirement language regarding background patent rights.</p>
                      <p>13. Consider adding in Section H – Special Contract
Requirement language regarding Modular Open Systems Approach (MOSA)
– including interfaces, patent and data rights, and data
deliverables.</p>
                      <p>14. If the IP strategy includes recompeting a system, subsystem,
or component, consider requesting the offeror’s proposed
terms and conditions for delivering a Technical Data Package (TDP)
that grants rights to the TDP for the system/subsystem/component.
Proposal shall clearly outline the terms and conditions, all
associated costs, and any minimum quantity (if applicable), in
addition to providing the Government with the capability to obtain
an IP license from the date of notification of award. Government
should be granted sufficient IP rights including technical data
rights and background patent rights necessary to allow the
Government to compete the design, potentially secure additional
sources for the system/subsystem/component, and/or use submitted
technical data on any other Government programs.</p>
                      <p>15. Consider the use of escrow. A data escrow account is an
account, held by a third-party or even a prime (provided the prime
is not the owner of the data to be placed in escrow), which is
populated by the offeror with designated technical data, computer
software, and/or computer software documentation (“the escrow
data”) and will only be released to the Government under
specified, mutually agreed to, conditions.</p>
                    </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry>
                      <b>Evaluation</b>
                    </entry>
                    <entry>
                      <p>1. Evaluate IP, data deliverables, license rights, and MOSA in
accordance with section M of the solicitation and the source
selection plan. Negotiate, as needed, whether sole source or
competitive.</p>
                      <p>2. Evaluate the proposed assertions (as to the restrictions on
license rights).</p>
                      <p>3. With the assistance of a cognizant IP attorney, research to
verify IP and data rights assertions made by each offeror. If there
is reason to believe an offeror correctly asserted an item was
developed exclusively at private expense, audit the offeror’s
records with the assistance of the Defense Contracting Audit Agency
(DCAA). (NOTE: The Contracting Officer should engage with DCAA as
early in the process in the procurement planning process as
possible to determine DCAA’s availability to assist.) See
DFARS 252.227-7019 or DFARS 252.227-7037 for additional
information.</p>
                      <p>4. Evaluate the offeror’s provided information for
commercial technologies (similar to that required in the DFARS
listing and assertion requirements provision (DFARS
252.227-7017)).</p>
                      <p>5. Evaluate offeror’s proposed terms and conditions for
delivering a TDP and granting rights to the TDP for the
system/subsystem/component, as requested in Section L, in
accordance with the evaluation criteria stated in the RFP.</p>
                      <p>6. Ensure specific up-front delivery requirements for technology
being developed under the contract are met; determine if
cost-effective/fair and reasonable.</p>
                      <p>7. Evaluate and negotiate competitively-priced options for IP
deliverables for which Army’s “need” for the
deliverable is dependent on future uncertain events or decisions
– When it is not certain whether an up-front purchase is
cost-effective/fair and reasonable</p>
                      <p>8. Research to determine the cost of same or similar license
rights or data deliverables (including data for OMIT). Research and
understand any market trends specific to data and license rights
that may directly impact cost. (This is typically necessary when
license rights are a significant portion of the price and the
evaluation will include a cost realism analysis or a complex price
reasonableness analysis.)</p>
                      <p>9. When applicable, in accordance with the stated evaluation
criteria in the solicitation:</p>
                      <p>a. Determine whether the software developer/owner is
identified.</p>
                      <p>b. Determine whether the offeror wholly owns the rights
necessary to make, use, sell, or offer for sale.</p>
                      <p>c. Determine whether there is a third-party software
developer/owner.</p>
                      <p>d. Determine whether offeror proposed third-party software is
open source software.</p>
                      <p>e. Confirm the offeror will ensure negotiated rights are passed
down to subcontractors.</p>
                      <p>f. Determine whether the offeror has the capability and/or
willingness to deliver license rights for technical data and
computer software necessary for depot level maintenance.</p>
                      <p>g. Confirm whether the offeror’s proposed special licenses
meet the solicitation criteria and are reasonable.</p>
                    </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry>
                      <b>Negotiations</b>
                    </entry>
                    <entry>
                      <p>1. Early in negotiation process, when competition exists,
establish an environment of open communication and negotiations of
prices/costs.</p>
                      <p>2. Consider negotiating license rights and data deliverables
(including data for OMIT) required (should be linked to CDRL(s))
and costs/prices, if separately priced.</p>
                      <p>3. Consider negotiating to ensure a complete package (or as much
as needed) of all technical data and computer software for enabling
maintenance of an entire system is delivered, when appropriate.</p>
                      <p>4. Contract Officer should discuss the proposed level of rights
and proposed price/cost.</p>
                      <p>5. Ensure requirements for license rights, and data deliverables
– including data for OMIT (developed, delivered, or provided
by subs of any tier) are understood and request inclusion of
required/desired terms in contracts with subcontractors.</p>
                    </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry>
                      <b>Award</b>
                    </entry>
                    <entry>
                      <p>1. Incorporate into contract all asserted license rights
restrictions.</p>
                      <p>1. Incorporate into contract all applicable IP clauses and
provisions.</p>
                      <p>2. Document (within contract) specific up-front delivery
requirements for: 1) Technology being developed under the contract
(i.e., you’re already paying for it!); and 2) Known
requirements for proprietary technology deliverables, when
cost-effective/fair and reasonable.</p>
                      <p>3. Ensure all data deliverables are assigned CLIN(s) and CDRL(s)
and are traceable to the PWS/SOW</p>
                      <p>4. Incorporate proposed product support/sustainment strategy in
the final contract.</p>
                      <p>5. If escrow account is used, ensure it is assigned a priced
CLIN(s).</p>
                    </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                    <entry>
                      <b>Post Award/ Administration</b>
                    </entry>
                    <entry>
                      <p>1. Make sure the award is clear on what will be delivered and
delivery date.</p>
                      <p>2. If there is a patent clause (usually in research and
development contracts), ensure the invention disclosures are
timely, patent applications are properly filed when appropriate,
and the Government’s rights are established. Establish
follow-up procedures.</p>
                      <p>3. Monitor to ensure the deliverable schedule is being met and
the data quality is as required.</p>
                      <p>4. Review the IP strategy as major development milestones are
completed.</p>
                      <p>5. Continuously, assess and update the IP strategy and ensure a
life cycle consideration for competition is sustained within the
costs of the program’s business objective.</p>
                      <p>6. Create a Program or PEO Repository to ensure that the data
can be retrieved and [re] used when it is needed later (bonus:
transfer to, and reuse by, other programs whenever possible).</p>
                      <p>7. Technical/operational needs are the responsibility of the
Government. Do not rely on industry to ensure Government
requirements can be competitively replaced.</p>
                      <p>8. Business/legal needs are the responsibility of the Government
program office with support from appropriate contacting office and
legal office (e.g., tracking Gov’t investment to support
challenging IP restrictions/assertions).</p>
                      <p>9. Update as necessary any post-award changes to the list of
asserted data rights restrictions.</p>
                      <p>10. Monitor compliance of requirement to report inventions
developed during contract performance.</p>
                      <p>11. Conduct reviews to verify data is delivered and complies
with contract requirements: 1) Does the data delivered match the
technical/functional requirements identified in the contract; and
2) Asserted data rights markings (Do the markings match up with the
list of assertions?).</p>
                      <p>12. Assess Technical compliance (audit or Independent
Verification &amp; Validation).</p>
                      <p>13. Regularly audit deliverables for Restrictive Markings
(recurring) conforming and justified.</p>
                      <p>14. Invoke withhold payment clause (DFARS 252.227-7030,
Technical Data-Withholding of Payment) for non-compliant technical
data.</p>
                      <p>15. Initiate a validation procedure when markings are not
justified (i.e., do not accurately describe the Army’s
license right) Refer to DFARS 252.227-7019 and
252.227-7037.</p>
                      <p>16. Follow procedures under DFARS 252.227-7013 and 252.227-7014
when markings are nonconforming (i.e., not a marking prescribed by
the DFARS).</p>
                    </entry>
                  </row>
                </tbody>
              </tgroup>
            </table>
            <p>*Adapted from: “Intellectual Property Acquisition and
Licensing Checklist” DoD Brochure on Intellectual Property
Strategy, Prepared by the Department of Defense Open Systems
Architecture—Data Rights Team August 2014</p>
            <p>
              <b>
                <u>Market Research</u>
              </b>
            </p>
            <p>Once the Government’s requirements are sufficiently
defined, market research in accordance with FAR Part 10, begins and
is a coordinated effort by the PM or MATDEVs and the PCO. The
market research technique utilized is at the discretion of the
acquisition professionals. When conducting market research,
consider the critical characteristics and needs of the requirement
to include the following with respect to IP, data deliverables, and
associated licensing rights:</p>
            <p>1. Are there any hardware or software solutions that meet the
requirement(s) that were developed using Government funding? If so,
what?</p>
            <p>2. Does Industry have any input to assist the Government in
reaching the Government’s objectives or meeting the
Government’s requirement(s)? If so, what?</p>
            <p>3. Industry Standards</p>
            <p>a. What are the usual terms in commercial transactions for the
sale of the product or service you require?</p>
            <p>b. Are the license and other intellectual property rights
adequate for Government’s needs?</p>
            <p>c. Are there any proprietary processes or materials (e.g., trade
secrets) that may limit future competition?</p>
            <p>d. Do the commercial terms and conditions violate laws or
policies applicable to Government contracting?</p>
            <p> Note: Rights related to commercial software are
governed by the standard commercial software license agreement,
rather than any DFARS clauses.</p>
            <p>e. Does the Government need/want to negotiate revisions to the
standard commercial software license agreement in instances where
the commercial software license agreement conflicts with Federal
procurement law or does not meet the Government user’s
needs?</p>
            <p> Note: In some instances, substantial revisions to the
standard commercial software license agreement (e.g., additional
software copies) may result in additional costs.</p>
            <p>4. Technical Data Delivery Format</p>
            <p>a. Contractors often do not have technical data in formats that
DoD typically expects to receive. The Government should be willing
to accept standard commercial data formats, to the maximum extent
practicable.</p>
            <p>b. Competitive: What are industry standards for technical data
deliverable format(s)?</p>
            <p>c. Sole Source: What is the contractor’s usual deliverable
format for technical data?</p>
            <p>5. Technology Maturity</p>
            <p>a. How much of the software and/or hardware is mature?</p>
            <p>b. How much of the software and/or hardware is still in
development or testing?</p>
            <p>c. What is the overall Technology Readiness Level (TRL)?</p>
            <p>d. Software is typically not delivered 100 percent
“bug” free. It may take several years to mature. The
logistics product support/sustainment strategy should address
software maintenance including “bug” fixes.</p>
            <p>6. Support and Sustainment</p>
            <p>a. Offerors typically provide software bug fix support, but
length of support varies. The Government may consider bug fix
support (including cost, length, and scope of such support) during
source selection as a trade-off.</p>
            <p> Are software bug fixes supported?</p>
            <p> If so, how long are they supported?</p>
            <p>b. Offerors may provide software upgrades and cybersecurity
updates. The Government may consider offeror provided software
upgrades (including cost, length, and scope of such support)</p>
            <p> Are software upgrades and cybersecurity updates
provided at no additional cost?</p>
            <p> If so, how long are they provided? What are the terms
and conditions?</p>
            <p>c. Is there a plan to later modify deliverable hardware, data,
or software?</p>
            <p>d. Will a data package be required?</p>
            <p>e. Will access to support and support-related technical
information be obtained, for hardware and software, to
cost-effectively maintain the system at each of the designated
levels of maintenance and to foster competition for sources of
support throughout the life-cycle.</p>
            <p>f. Will government purpose rights (GPR) to a Level 3 Technical
Data Package enable 3D Modeling for hardware to avoid vendor lock
and allow for hardware repairs within the organic industrial base
(OIB)?</p>
            <p>7. Logistics</p>
            <p>a. What is the approximate period of time required to prepare
validated procedures addressing software and configuration file
loading and to maintain the software baseline?</p>
            <p>b. What period of time is required to transition and set-up the
necessary tools and test equipment for the Government to conduct
maintenance on the software baseline?</p>
            <p>c. What is the approximate period of time required to train
Government personnel on required hardware testing, troubleshooting,
and repair procedures and procedures for maintaining the software
baseline?</p>
          </conbody>
        </concept>
