<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_6-13">
   <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">6-13.</ph> File Retention</title>
   <conbody>
      <p outputclass="List1">a. GPC transaction documentation must be retained for six years in accordance
with FAR 4.805 and DoD Charge Card Guidebook Section A.1.14. Billing officials
are responsible for ensuring that record retention requirements are met. GPC
transactions with foreign military sales (FMS) funding must follow the retention
guidance in DoD FMR Volume 15, Chapter 6, and ensure the FMS documents are
retained for 10 years from the date of final case closure.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>Uploading Supporting Documentation</b>. CHs must upload all transaction
supporting documentation in the bank’s EAS. The uploaded documentation is the
CH’s official purchase file. If the complete file is uploaded in the EAS, CHs do
not need to maintain a duplicate hardcopy or electronic file. For purchases that
do not have uploaded documentation, the CH or BO must retain the corresponding
hardcopy or electronic files for six years.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>Corrective Action</b>. When documentation is not retained in accordance
with the GPC file retention policy, A/OPCs must evaluate the CH/BO’s record
retention processes and develop corrective action plans with target completion
dates to prevent recurrence. A/OPCs should take disciplinary action as necessary
for negligent CHs (e.g., suspending card accounts).</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">d. FAR 4.805 provides the following guidance on file storage: “Agencies must
prescribe procedures for the handling, storing, and disposing of contract
files…These procedures must take into account documents held in all types of
media. Agencies may change the original medium to facilitate storage as long as
the requirements of the part, law, and other regulations are satisfied. The
process used to create and store records must record and reproduce the original
document, including signatures and other written and graphic images completely,
accurately, and clearly. Data transfer, storage, and retrieval procedures must
protect the original data from alteration. Unless law or other regulations
require signed originals to be kept, they may be destroyed after the responsible
agency official verifies that record copies on alternate media and copies
reproduced from the record copy are accurate, complete, and clear
representations of the originals.”</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">e. Original disbursing office records (BO or Certifying Officer), along with
CH supporting documents in electronic format, negate the need for the CH to
store duplicate hardcopy documents.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">f. Electronic record storage requires adequate controls to ensure the digital
images accurately represent the corresponding paper documentation and to detect
changes to an original digital image. In addition, electronic storage must be in
a centrally managed location that has an established backup process.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">g. See 6-2.e for GPC transaction documentation and disbursing office records.
For additional examples of documents classified as disbursing office records,
see DoD FMR Volume 5, Chapter 15, 150803.</p>
      <p id="OLE_LINK9" outputclass="List1">h. Receipts are considered supporting documents for the certified
billing statement. Original receipts are preferred; however, printed electronic
forms or copies of an itemized receipt are acceptable. The receipt must be
legible and indicate vendor’s name and address, date of the purchase, and paid
by credit card or zero amount due. Goods must be itemized/detailed with the item
description, quantity, price, and extended price. The BO maintains these records
in physical possession, or when appropriate, transfers them to a records holding
area. However, if certifying electronically, the CH and BO may rely on the
servicing bank’s EAS for supporting documentation. Original records are
considered Government property and may not be removed from Government control by
the BO for any reason.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">i. <b>Appointment Letters</b>. Delegation of authority letters and GPC
appointment letters, executed by both the appointer and the appointee, will be
retained in PIEE/JAM for six years after the delegation has been terminated
through personnel action such as the appointee’s separation, retirement, or
transfer.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">j. A/OPCs must retain any paper-based or email requests relating to new
account issuance and maintenance for six years after the date of account
issuance or update.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">k. Data residing in the bank’s EAS is maintained by the bank for six years.
Reports may be retrieved from the bank’s EAS for the previous two years. Reports
covering data for periods beyond the previous two years are available from the
bank upon request.</p>
      <p id="Toc532909321"/>
   </conbody>
</concept>
