<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" id="AFARS_AppendixBB-201" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <title outputclass="Heading 4">
      <ph props="autonumber">BB-201</ph> Event Cycle 2: Presolicitation.</title>
   <conbody>
      <p id="uOfDvh">
         <b>
            <i>Step 1: Acquisition</i>
         </b>
         <b>
            <i>Planning and Strategy.</i>
         </b>
      </p>
      <p id="vnCoCV" outputclass="List2">a. Are acquisition plans developed when required (FAR 7.104 and DFARS 207.103)?</p>
      <p id="MkolKN" outputclass="List2">b. Are acquisition plans approved by the appropriate official and do acquisition plans address the required areas (FAR 7.105, DFARS 207.1, DFARS PGI 207.106, and AFARS 5107.103-90)?</p>
      <p id="SVvpOt" outputclass="List2">c. Are evaluation factors established in accordance with regulations (FAR 12.602, FAR 13.106-1, FAR 14.503-1, FAR 15.304, 16.505(b)(1)(i)(E), 16.505(b)(1)(v)(A)(1), DFARS 215.304, DFARS 215.370, DFARS 215.370-2, DFARS 215.404-71-5, DFARS 216.505-70, and AFARS 5115.304)?</p>
      <p id="lfLLGU" outputclass="List2">d. Are acquisition strategies for services requirements approved by the appropriate official and do they address all required areas (AFARS 5137.590-3)?</p>
      <p id="ETwLGU">
         <b>
            <i>Step 2: Purchase Request and Review.</i>
         </b>
      </p>
      <p id="BDNtAW" outputclass="List2">a. Are purchase requests adequately funded, signed, dated, approved by appropriate persons, and do they include adequate supporting documents?</p>
      <p id="ckcmFo" outputclass="List2">b. Do requirements documents (e.g., performance work statement, statement of work, specifications) comply with regulations for describing agency needs (FAR 11.002, FAR subpart 11.1, FAR 37.602 and DFARS 211.1)?</p>
      <p id="sgZdCY" outputclass="List2">c. Is market research adequate to support the selected acquisition approach (FAR 10.001, FAR 10.002 and DFARS 210.001)? When contracting for services see DFARS PGI 210.070.</p>
      <p id="MRXHWW" outputclass="List2">d. Has market research been conducted to determine if commercial items or non-developmental items are available to meet the Government’s needs or could be modified to meet the Government’s needs (FAR 10.002(b))?</p>
      <p id="HdkpqC" outputclass="List2">e. Does the independent Government cost estimate, if required, contain enough detail to verify the validity of the offeror’s proposal, provide sufficient narrative and analytical detail to support preparation, include the preparer’s signature (FAR 15.404.1(b)(2)(v), FAR 36.203, and AFARS 5107.9002)?</p>
      <p id="xWkCEs" outputclass="List2">f. Do blue prints and drawings, if required, appear reasonably accurate and complete, and can they be provided electronically?</p>
      <p id="uwohQz" outputclass="List2">g. For Army-funded actions, has a service contract approval been submitted with General Officer/Senior Executive Service level approval certifying that the requirement contains no unauthorized personal services or inherently governmental functions (FAR 7.5, DFARS 207.5, and AFARS 5107.503)?</p>
      <p id="zVUDdM" outputclass="List2">h. If a contract, task or delivery order against a non-DoD contract is requested, does the requirements package include a certification for proper use of a non-DoD contract in accordance with DFARS 217.78 and AFARS 5117.7802?</p>
      <p id="xWZwPO" outputclass="List2">i. Are purchase requests for unauthorized commitments processed according to ratification procedures (FAR 1.602-3 and AFARS 5101.602-3-90)?</p>
      <p id="wzIuor" outputclass="List2">j. Are there procedures in place for monitoring the age of purchase requests?</p>
      <p id="tyOytC" outputclass="List2">k. If a performance based procurement, does the requirement incorporate a surveillance plan with measurable performance standards (FAR 37.603, FAR 37.604 and FAR 46.4)?</p>
      <p id="OZLUxH" outputclass="List2">l. Are determinations executed to support the selected contract type (FAR 12.207, FAR 16.601, FAR 16.301-3, DFARS 212.207, and DFARS 216.601)?</p>
      <p id="ZFLLGT" outputclass="List2">m. Are salient characteristics provided when a “brand name or equal” requirement is requested (FAR 11.104)?</p>
      <p id="CpDtIe">
         <b>
            <i>Step 3: Competition Considerations.</i>
         </b>
      </p>
      <p id="bqHnuw" outputclass="List2">a. If competition is restricted, was a justification and approval (J&amp;A) properly prepared, executed and approved by the designated authority (FAR 6.302, FAR 6.303, FAR 6.304, FAR 13.106-1(b), FAR 13.501, DFARS 206.303, DFARS 206.304 and AFARS 5106.303)?</p>
      <p id="Wdxkvz" outputclass="List2">b. Are orders under multiple delivery order/task order contracts that exceed $3,000 issued in a manner that provides all awardees a fair opportunity to be considered? Are orders that exceed the simplified acquisition threshold placed on a competitive basis? If not, is a limited sources justification or justification for an exception to fair opportunity prepared and approved in accordance with FAR 8.405-6, and FAR 16.505(b)(2)?</p>
      <p id="bZVELN" outputclass="List2">c. Are J&amp;As executed and approved for brand name procurements (FAR 5.102(a)((6), FAR 8.405-6, FAR 11.104, and FAR 11.105)?</p>
      <p id="hGPAWk" outputclass="List2">d. Are J&amp;As assigned a control number and maintained in a J&amp;A log?</p>
      <p id="Woyggf">
         <b>
            <i>Step 4: Solicitation Preparation.</i>
         </b>
      </p>
      <p id="CHZGvr" outputclass="List2">a. Do solicitations:</p>
      <p id="CflhZK" outputclass="List2">b. Conform to the uniform contract format (FAR 14.201-1 or FAR 15.204-1) or the commercial items contract format (FAR 12.303), as applicable?</p>
      <p id="moZAMC" outputclass="List2">c. Contain clauses that conform to the FAR or DFARS or have deviation approval (DFARS 201.402(2))?</p>
      <p id="eFiZOQ" outputclass="List2">d. Reflect consistency between the performance work statement, statement of objectives, statement of work, source selection plan, instructions to offerors and evaluation criteria (AFARS appendix AA, Army Source Selection Supplement, dated 21 December 2012)?</p>
      <p id="wrWDda" outputclass="List2">e. Clearly state in the instructions to offerors when it is the intent of the Government to award without discussions (FAR 15.306(a)(3) and AFARS appendix AA, Army Source Selection Supplement, dated 21 December 2012)?</p>
      <p id="p_OLE_LINK10" outputclass="List2">f. Include evaluation criteria prescribed by Federal regulation, DoD, and Army guidance (DoD Source Selection Procedures, dated 4 Mar 2011, and Army Source Selection Supplement, dated 21 Dec 2012)?</p>
      <p id="AmmZIR" outputclass="List2">g. Contain FAR clause 52.219-14 - Limitations on Subcontracting, as prescribed by FAR 19.508(e) and FAR 19.811-3(e)?</p>
      <p id="yjHElJ" outputclass="List2">h. Contain FAR clause 52.219-9 - Small Business Subcontracting Plan, as prescribed by FAR 19.704 and FAR 19.708(b)?</p>
      <p id="vFTIcb" outputclass="List2">i. With a long period of performance or a multiple-award indefinite-delivery indefinite-quantity contract, have decision points (i.e., on and off ramps) been incorporated to ensure that the Government has a qualified pool of contractors that will provide continuous service throughout the life of the contract (Defense Procurement and Acquisition Policy memorandum dated 18 February 2009, Subject: Review Criteria for Acquisition of Services)?</p>
      <p id="rYaABE" outputclass="List2">j. Contain FAR clause 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons, or Alternate I for contracts with performance outside the U.S. or by reference in FAR 52.212-5?</p>
      <p id="PXirjL" outputclass="List2">k. Contain the item unique identification clause (DFARS 252.211-7003, or its alternate) in all applicable contracts (DFARS 211.274-4)?</p>
      <p id="Chwjfw" outputclass="List2">l. Receive peer reviews conducted appropriate to the value and complexity of the acquisition (DFARS 201.170, and AFARS 5101.170)?</p>
      <p id="XnHXZQ" outputclass="List2">m.Receive legal review prior to being published (AFARS 5101.602-2-90)?</p>
      <p id="cVVEWe">
         <b>
            <i>Step 5: Publicizing Contract Opportunities and Award Information.</i>
         </b>
      </p>
      <p id="tYXWsz" outputclass="List2">a. Are solicitation notices publicized through the Government point of entry, or determination for exception executed (FAR 5.201, FAR 5.202, FAR 5.301, and AFARS 5104.502)?</p>
      <p id="ZvjoZI" outputclass="List2">b. Are justifications and approvals for other than full an open competition posted with solicitations, as applicable (FAR 6.305, FAR 8.405-6(a)(2), and FAR 16.505(b)(2)(ii)(D)?</p>
      <p id="oRGBhW" outputclass="List2">c. When using competitive procedures, if a solicitation allowed fewer than 30 days for receipt of offers and resulted in only one offer, are contracting officers resoliciting requirements for an additional period of at least 30 days, except as provided in (DFARS <xref format="html" href="http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/dars/dfars/html/current/215_3.htm" scope="external">215.371-4</xref>, DFARS <xref format="html" href="http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/dars/dfars/html/current/215_3.htm" scope="external">215.371-5</xref>, and DFARS 205.203)?</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
