<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_APPENDIX-AA_a-2">
        <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">A-2</ph> Requirements</title>
        <conbody>
          <p>Figure A-1 below provides a comprehensive side-by-side
comparison of the requirements for preaward and postaward
debriefings.</p>
          <table>
            <tgroup cols="3">
              <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="0.5*"/>
              <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.2*"/>
              <colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" colwidth="1.4*"/>
              <tbody>
                <row>
                  <entry/>
                  <entry>
                    <p>
                        <b>PREAWARD DEBRIEFING</b>
                    </p>
                    <p>
                        <b>FAR 15.505</b>
                    </p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <p>
                        <b>POSTAWARD DEBRIEFING</b>
                    </p>
                    <p>
                        <b>FAR 15.506</b>
                    </p>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <b>Who is Entitled to a Debriefing?</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>Offerors excluded from the competitive range or otherwise
excluded from the competition before award.</entry>
                  <entry>
                    <p>Any unsuccessful Offeror who has not had a preaward
debriefing.</p>
                    <p>
                        <b>
                           <i>A successful offeror may also be provided a
debriefing.</i>
                        </b>
                    </p>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <b>When Must the Government Conduct a
Debriefing?</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>As soon as practicable after receipt of a timely, written
request. However, the PCO may refuse the request for a preaward
debriefing if it is not in the best interest of the government to
conduct a preaward debriefing. (1) (2)</entry>
                  <entry>Within five days, to the maximum extent practicable, after
receipt of a timely, written request for a debriefing. (3)</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <b>What is a Timely Request?</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>A request received by the contracting activity within 3 calendar
days after the offeror received notice of exclusion from the
competition. (4)</entry>
                  <entry>A request received by the contracting activity within 3 calendar
days after the offeror received notice of contract award. (4)</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <b>What Can <u>Not</u> Be Disclosed?</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <p> Number of offerors</p>
                    <p> Identity of other offerors</p>
                    <p> Content of other offerors ‘proposals</p>
                    <p> Ranking of other offerors</p>
                    <p> Evaluation of other offerors</p>
                    <p> Point-by-point comparisons of a debriefed
offeror’s proposal with other proposals</p>
                    <p>Information prohibited from disclosure by FAR 24.202 or
information exempt from release under the FOIA (5)</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <p> Point-by-point comparisons of a debriefed
offeror’s proposal with other proposals. (The ratings of a
debriefed offeror and the awardee may be disclosed to the subfactor
level without violating this principle.)</p>
                    <p> Information prohibited from disclosure by FAR 24.202,
or information exempt from release under the FOIA. (5)</p>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry/>
                  <entry nameend="col3" namest="col2">
                    <b>Legal counsel must be consulted if there is
<i>
                           <u>any</u>
                        </i> question regarding the releasability of
information</b>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <b>What Should Be Discussed?</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <p> The agency’s evaluation of significant elements
in the offeror’s proposal (6);</p>
                    <p> A summary of the rationale for eliminating the offeror
from the competition;</p>
                    <p> Reasonable responses to relevant questions about
whether source selection procedures contained in the RFP,
applicable regulations, and other applicable authorities were
followed in the process of eliminating the Offeror from the
competition.</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <p> The government’s evaluation of the significant
weaknesses, weaknesses, or deficiencies in the offeror’s
proposal, if applicable.</p>
                    <p> The overall evaluated cost/price (include unit prices
only if releasable under FOIA, and DO NOT disclose the IGE);
technical rating, if applicable, of the successful offeror and the
debriefed offeror; and past performance information on the
debriefed offeror;</p>
                    <p> The overall ranking of all offerors, when any ranking
was developed by the agency during the source selection;</p>
                    <p> A summary of the rationale for award;</p>
                    <p> For acquisitions of commercial items, the make and
model of the item to be delivered by the successful offeror;
and</p>
                    <p> Reasonable responses to relevant questions about
whether source selection procedures contained in the RFP,
applicable regulations, and other applicable authorities were
followed.</p>
                    <p> Other information, as appropriate.</p>
                  </entry>
                </row>
              </tbody>
            </tgroup>
          </table>
          <p>
            <i>Figure A-1: Comparison of Preaward and Postaward
Debriefings</i>
          </p>
          <p>
            <b>Notes to Figure A-1:</b>
          </p>
          <p>(1) The offeror may request the debriefing be delayed until
after contract award. When delayed, the debriefing shall include
all the information provided in a postaward debriefing.</p>
          <p>(2) In the event either the government or offeror delays the
debriefing, the PCO must provide the debriefing within the
timeframe established for postaward debriefings.</p>
          <p>(3) If an offeror submits an untimely request for debriefing,
the PCO may nonetheless conduct a debriefing if feasible. In such
case, inform the offeror the request is untimely.
<b>NOTE:</b> If new information is provided during an
untimely debriefing, it may form the basis of a timely protest.
Therefore, obtain legal advice prior to providing an untimely
debriefing</p>
          <p>(4) Do not count the day the offeror received the notice; start
with the next day. Consider sending the notice by mail with return
receipt requested or by electronic means (facsimile transmission or
e-mail) with immediate acknowledgment requested so that you can
easily establish the date the offeror received it.</p>
          <p>(5) Includes such things as trade secrets; privileged or
confidential information, e.g., manufacturing processes and
techniques, commercial and financial information, and cost data;
and the names of individuals providing past performance
information. It does not include information otherwise available
without restriction to the government or public.</p>
          <p>(6) If the element was significant enough to eliminate the
offeror from the competitive range, it is significant for
debriefing purposes. Include both positive and negative aspects of
the offeror’s proposal to help improve future proposals.</p>
          <p>
            <b>
              <u>Other Information to Ensure a Meaningful
Debriefing</u>
            </b>
          </p>
          <p>In a postaward debriefing, disclose the evaluation ratings of
the debriefed offeror and awardee to the subfactor level of
evaluation; and all significant weaknesses, weaknesses, strengths,
and deficiencies (if any) of the debriefed offeror’s
proposal.</p>
          <p>Disclose the debriefed offeror’s total evaluated prices
and the awardee’s total evaluated cost/price (include unit
prices only if releasable under FOIA, but DO NOT disclose the
IGE).</p>
          <p>Disclose a summary of the rationale for the contract award
decision. The rationale is contained in the SSA’s SSDD.
Evaluation information concerning the other unsuccessful offerors
and information not releasable under FOIA must be redacted prior to
release of an SSDD, ensuring no information listed in FAR 15.506(e)
is released.</p>
          <p>For award of a contract in excess of $10 million and not in
excess of $100 million with a small business or nontraditional
defense contractor, the debrief must include an option for the
small business or nontraditional defense contractor to request a
redacted copy of the SSDD <i>(Reference DFARS Subpart
215.506(d)(i))</i>.</p>
          <p>For all other awards below $100M, consider furnishing the
debriefed offerors with a <b>
              <i>redacted</i>
            </b> copy
of the SSDD.</p>
          <p>For award of a contract exceeding $100M, a redacted copy of the
SSDD is required to be furnished to offerors <i>(Reference DFARS
Subpart 215.506(d)(ii)).</i>
          </p>
          <p>Clearly indicate when the debriefing has been concluded. Formal
conclusion of the debriefing begins the protest window.</p>
        </conbody>
      </concept>
