<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-AA_g-2">
        <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">G-2</ph> Applicability to Best Value Acquisitions</title>
        <conbody>
          <p>Online RAs are legal as long as the identity of the bidders is
not disclosed. Online RA tools may be used as a pricing tool for
LPTAs or tradeoff acquisitions. For example, an RA tool can be used
as a pricing tool for a tradeoff acquisition after the completion
of technical discussion. You may conduct a reverse auction to
establish the offerors’ final prices, provide these prices,
along with the rest of the evaluation results, to the SSA for
his/her use in selecting the proposal that represents the best
value.</p>
          <p>Potential benefits are reduced acquisition cycle time and
increased competition that in due course drive prices down as the
offerors have visibility of the other prices being proposed.
Additionally, the online RA process is inclusive, transparent, and
immediately advantageous to both government and industry.</p>
          <p>FAR Subpart 4.5 supports the use of electronic commerce whenever
practical or cost-effective. Online RAs should be utilized when it
is anticipated that this method will deliver more value than the
use of other available procurement methods. Additionally, RAs are
more advantageous to the government in reducing acquisition cycle
time when the requirements are best suited for an RA
environment.</p>
        </conbody>
      </concept>
