<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_17-4">
    <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">17-4.</ph> Custom Reports within the Servicing Bank</title>
    <conbody>
        <p>In addition to the ability to access and run standard reports, the
            servicing bank has created custom reports available to the Army.
            Users can run these custom reports in three basic steps:</p>
        <p>4) Select the report. Begin by accessing the custom reports function
            and then navigating to and selecting the custom report you want to
            run.</p>
        <p>5) Specify parameters. Set parameters for the report, such as date
            range.</p>
        <p>6) Run the report. After specifying any report-specific parameters,
            select to run the report or save and then run the report.</p>
        <p id="Toc118789529">Table 17-9: Summary of Custom Reports</p>
        <table>
            <tgroup cols="2">
                <colspec colnum="1" colwidth="1*" colname="col1"/>
                <colspec colnum="2" colwidth="1*" colname="col2"/>
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Account information reports</entry>
                        <entry>Transaction activity reports</entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Account Approval Status</entry>
                        <entry>All Convenience Check Transactions</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Account List</entry>
                        <entry>Cash Activity Only</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Accounts with High Credit Limits</entry>
                        <entry>Declined Transactions</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Accounts with Underutilized Credit Limits</entry>
                        <entry>Frequent Credits by Merchant</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Active Accounts with Multiple Lost/Stolen
                            Cards</entry>
                        <entry>Frequent Credit Transactions</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Billing/Approval Official Conflict of
                            Interest</entry>
                        <entry>High Cardholder Spending by Merchant</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Certification and Payment Report</entry>
                        <entry>Large Dollar Transactions</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>MCC/MAT Codes Assigned to CH Accounts</entry>
                        <entry>Mismatched Authorizations</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry/>
                        <entry>Over Limit Convenience Check Transactions</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry/>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>Payment and Prompt Payment Act Interest</p>
                            <p>Penalty Transactions</p> 
                  </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry/>
                        <entry>Potential Split Requirement Review</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry/>
                        <entry>Retail Transaction</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry/>
                        <entry>Suspect Merchants</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry/>
                        <entry>Transactions at Blocked MCCs</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry/>
                        <entry>Transactions Without Authorization</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry/>
                        <entry>Transactions without Terminal IDs</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry/>
                        <entry>Transaction Detail</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry/>
                        <entry>Travel Industry Transactions</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry/>
                        <entry>Unusual Spending Activity</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p id="Toc118789530">Table 17-10: Custom Reports of Account
            Information</p>
        <table>
            <tgroup cols="2">
                <colspec colnum="1" colwidth="0.6*" colname="col1"/>
                <colspec colnum="2" colwidth="1.4*" colname="col2"/>
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry> <b>Report</b> </entry>
                        <entry> <b>Report Description</b> </entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Account Approval Status</entry>
                        <entry>This report provides a list of accounts with the
                            approval status for each account. You can use this
                            report to track the approval workflow for your
                            program.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Account List</entry>
                        <entry>This report provides a list of accounts by one or
                            more processing hierarchy positions or one or more
                            reporting hierarchy positions.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Accounts with High Credit Limits</entry>
                        <entry>This report provides a list of accounts that have
                            maximum credit limits over a specified amount. You
                            can use the report to mitigate risk and review
                            credit limits. The report presents all credit limits
                            for analysis.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>Accounts with underutilized</p> 
                     <p>Credit
                            Limits</p> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry>You can use this report to assist in your review
                            of cardholder spend against the cardholder’s maximum
                            credit limit. In this way, you can identify
                            cardholder accounts that may need credit limit
                            adjustments.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Active Accounts with Multiple Lost and Stolen
                            Cards</entry>
                        <entry>This report lists accounts that have multiple
                            lost and/or stolen cards. You can use the report to
                            identify accounts that may be misusing their cards
                            so that you can improve program management.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>Billing/Approval Official</p> 
                     <p>Conflict of
                            Interest</p> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>This report lists cardholder accounts that
                            the Approving/Billing Official (A/BO) has approved
                            in Access Online. You can use this report to
                            identify potential lack of separation of duties
                            between</p> 
                     <p>BOs and cardholders.</p> 
                  </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>Certification and Payment</p> 
                     <p>Report</p> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry>This report provides information on certification
                            status and payment, including cycle close date,
                            amount certified, last payment date and last payment
                            amount. You can use this report to make sure your
                            approvals, certifications, and payments are on
                            track.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>MCC/MAT Codes Assigned to CH Accounts</entry>
                        <entry>This report lists merchant category codes
                            (MCCs)/merchant activity type (MAT) codes assigned
                            to cardholder accounts. You can use this report to
                            gain an overall picture of which merchants are
                            available for cardholder purchases.</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p id="Toc118789531">Table 17-11: Custom Reports of Transaction
            Activity</p>
        <table>
            <tgroup cols="2">
                <colspec colnum="1" colwidth="0.6*" colname="col1"/>
                <colspec colnum="2" colwidth="1.4*" colname="col2"/>
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <b>Report</b> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <b>Report Description</b> 
                  </entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <p id="Hlk102399338">All Convenience Check</p>
                            <p>Transactions</p> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry>This report lists all convenience check
                            transactions within your organization to help you
                            identify trends inconvenience check transactions and
                            possible misuse of convenience checks.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Cash Activity Only</entry>
                        <entry>This report provides a list of accounts that have
                            only cash transactions, including transaction and
                            merchant information. You can use this report to
                            monitor program compliance.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Declined Transactions</entry>
                        <entry>This report lists transactions that a merchant
                            declined at point of sale. You can use this report
                            to monitor declined transactions, audit program
                            compliance, and identify training needs.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>Frequent Credits by</p> 
                     <p>Merchant</p> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry>This report lists merchants who have a high
                            number of credits as part of their overall number of
                            transactions versus debits over a specified time
                            period (e.g., 30 percent of all transactions between
                            December 1 and December 31 were credits). You can
                            use this report to identify potential card misuse at
                            specific merchants and thereby improve program
                            management.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>Frequent Credit</p> 
                     <p>Transactions</p> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry>This report lists accounts with a high percentage
                            of credits relative to purchases (e.g., 30 percent
                            credits and 70% debits). You can use this report to
                            identify potential card misuse.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>High Cardholder</p> 
                     <p>Spending by
                            Merchant</p> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry>This report lists cardholder accounts with a high
                            level of spending with a specific merchant. You can
                            use this report to identify potential card misuse,
                            including cardholder collusion with a
                            merchant.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Large Dollar Transactions</entry>
                        <entry>This report lists transactions that are over a
                            specified purchase limit, which can help you
                            identify possible misuse.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Mismatched Authorizations</entry>
                        <entry>This report lists transactions for which the
                            authorization amount approved does not match the
                            final transaction amount. You can use this report to
                            help identify card misuse and improve program
                            management.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Over Limit Convenience Check Transactions</entry>
                        <entry>This report lists convenience check transactions
                            that are greater than a specified amount. You can
                            use this report to help identify transactions that
                            may require an independent review to mitigate
                            risk.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>Payment and Prompt</p> 
                     <p>Payment Act
                            Interest</p> 
                     <p>Penalty Transactions</p> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry>This report lists all Payment and Prompt Payment
                            Act interest penalty transactions. You can use this
                            report to identify timely certification and payment
                            processing for your organization</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>Potential Split</p> 
                     <p>Requirement Review</p> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry>This report lists CHs associated to the same
                            managing account who have multiple transactions with
                            the same vendor that total a specified amount or
                            more over a specified number of days (e.g., Jane Doe
                            has transactions totaling $2,000 with Quick Office
                            Supply between January 10 and January 11). You can
                            use this report to identify possible instances of
                            CHs splitting a transaction among multiple dates to
                            get around spending limits (e.g., get around a SPL
                            of $1,500).</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Retail Transaction</entry>
                        <entry>This report provides a list of retail
                            transactions, including account information,
                            merchant information, and transaction information.
                            You can use this report to monitor policy and
                            program compliance.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Suspect Merchants</entry>
                        <entry>This report provides a list of transactions with
                            suspect merchants, including account information,
                            merchant information, and transaction information.
                            You can use this report to monitor policy and
                            program compliance.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Transactions at Blocked MCCs</entry>
                        <entry>This report lists transactions at blocked
                            merchant category codes (MCCs). You can use this
                            report to track and manage vendor relationships and
                            identify potential card misuse.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>Transactions Without</p> 
                     <p>Authorization</p> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry>The report shows transactions the cardholder did
                            not obtain an authorization for. By tracking
                            transactions without authorization, you can identify
                            potential card misuse and improve program
                            management.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>Transactions without</p> 
                     <p>Terminal IDs</p> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry>This report shows transactions for which no
                            terminal ID was obtained. You can use this report to
                            help identify potential card misuse and to improve
                            program management.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Transaction Detail</entry>
                        <entry>This report provides detailed transaction
                            information, including account, merchant,
                            transaction, and allocation information. You can use
                            this report for overall program management.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>Travel Industry</p> 
                     <p>Transactions</p> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry>This report identifies transactions (over a
                            specified amount) from merchants in the travel
                            industry. You can use this report to help identify
                            potential card misuse.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>Unusual Spending</p> 
                     <p>Activity</p> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry>This report lists transactions a cardholder made
                            on a weekend or transactions that appear to be split
                            transactions. You can use this report to identify
                            potential card misuse and thereby improve program
                            management.</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
    </conbody>
</concept>
