<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_APPENDIX-AA_a-8">
        <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">A-8</ph> Conducting the Debriefing</title>
        <conbody>
          <p>
            <b>
              <i>Handling Questions</i>
            </b>
          </p>
          <p> You may request that questions from the offeror’s
personnel be funneled through their main spokesperson (this
facilitates the orderly conduct of the debriefing).</p>
          <p> As a general rule, do not answer questions “on
the fly”.</p>
          <p> Hold a government caucus to formulate a response before
providing an answer <i>(maintain source selection materials in
caucus room for reference, if needed)</i>.</p>
          <p> Government participants should only speak when
requested by the PCO with discussions tightly controlled.</p>
          <p> Additional questions may be answered during the
debrief. DFARS Subpart 215.506-70 and DoD Source Selection
Procedures Appendix A both provide specific guidance and timeframes
for handling questions received during or following the debrief of
offerors. Note: When providing a required postaward debriefing to
successful and unsuccessful offerors, pay careful attention to the
procedures and timeframes in DFARS 215.506-70. The number of days
for these actions are in <b>business days</b>, not
calendar days.</p>
          <p> The postaward debriefing is NOT considered concluded
until all criteria specified in the DFARS and DoD Source Selection
Guide has been properly met or performed.</p>
          <p> Ensure redacted SSDD is legally sufficient, as
applicable, and all actions are performed timely per DFARS and DoD
Source Selection Procedures.</p>
          <p>
            <b>
              <i>The Post Debriefing Memorandum</i>
            </b>
          </p>
          <p> The PCO must include a summary of each debriefing as a
record in the contract file. This post-debriefing memorandum should
include, at a minimum:</p>
          <p>o A list of all debriefing attendees;</p>
          <p>o A summary of the information disclosed during the debriefing.
(The most efficient means for doing this is to attach the
debriefing slides to the memorandum.);</p>
          <p>o The offeror’s request for a debriefing, if any;</p>
          <p>o The substance of all questions and answers discussed at, or
provided subsequent to, the debriefing. This includes previously
submitted questions, any hand-outs, and a list of written
questions/answers;</p>
          <p>o Any other relevant documents.</p>
        </conbody>
      </concept>
