<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="AFARS_Appendix-CC-403"
         xml:lang="en-US"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <title outputclass="Heading 4"> 
      <ph props="autonumber">CC-403</ph> 
      Results of Procurement Management Reviews.</title>
   <conbody>
      <p outputclass="List1">(a) Reports of PMR results will contain a risk assessment, analysis of issues, commendations, observations, findings, and recommendations as appropriate. PMR report findings must be specific and include sufficient information to enable root cause analysis. PMR recommendations must be based on supported findings and be actionable. </p>
      <p outputclass="List1">(b) Timely PMR result reports shall be provided. At a minimum - </p>
      <p outputclass="List2">(1) Reviewers shall submit the initial PMR report to the reviewed activity within 30 business days of the Out-brief. </p>
      <p outputclass="List2">(2) The responsible official must review and approve the Corrective Action Plans (CAP) and prepare a Final PMR report within 30 business days of CAP receipt. </p>
      <p outputclass="List1">(c) CAPs shall be created and implemented by the contracting activity. At a minimum - </p>
      <p outputclass="List2">(1) The contracting activity reviewed shall submit a CAP within 30 business days of report receipt. </p>
      <p outputclass="List2">(2) The reviewed activity must complete corrective actions – if any – within the agreed timeframe, inform the PMR Team Lead of corrective actions taken, and request closure of the CAP. </p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
