<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_5-7">
    <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">5-7.</ph> Card Security</title>
    <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. CHs are responsible for properly using and safeguarding their GPC.
            CHs must take appropriate precautions comparable to those taken to
            secure personal checks, credit cards, or cash. CHs must maintain the
            physical security of the card to prevent compromise. The card should
            never be surrendered, except when the account is going to be
            cancelled. Additionally, the account number should not be released
            to anyone other than the vendor processing the transaction.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>Lost or stolen cards</b>. The CH must promptly report lost,
            stolen, or compromised cards to the issuing bank, BO, and Level 4
            A/OPC. The servicing bank will immediately block the account from
            accepting additional charges.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. Only the designated CH has authority to make purchases with their
            GPC. The card is not to be used as a company card (e.g., during a
            CH’s absence, someone other than the CH borrows the card to make a
            purchase). Use of a GPC by multiple persons is prohibited.</p>
        <p id="Toc532909305" outputclass="List1">d. In addition to corrective or disciplinary
            action, military personnel who misuse their GPC may have their
            access to classified information modified or revoked if warranted in
            the interest of national security. Commanders and supervisors will
            follow Army guidance to ensure that security clearance reviews are
            conducted if the CH comes under investigation for card misuse.</p>
        <p id="Toc2099966277"/>
    </conbody>
</concept>
