<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<topic id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_Chapter-14">
  <title>Chapter 14 - Prohibited and Restricted Purchases</title>
  <body>
      <p outputclass="List1">a. Cardholders are presented with requests to buy a wide variety of items
      and services, and it can be difficult for CHs to determine whether the
      requested purchase is authorized. This chapter describes the
      characteristics of an authorized purchase; identifies items and services
      that are prohibited and restricted from purchase; and the exceptions under
      which they are allowable.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">b. Cardholders must contact their A/OPC or other local authority (e.g.,
      legal advisor, HCA, or resource manager) before making purchases that seem
      questionable or have the appearance of being inappropriate. When buying
      questionable items or services, CHs must include approval documentation in
      the purchase file.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">c. All exceptions must be on a per transaction basis after consultation
      with the A/OPC, legal counsel, HCA, SCO, CCO, or resource manager.
      Multiple requests for the same exception must be approved by the Level 3
      or 4 A/OPC responsible for issuing the GPC accounts. There may be
      exceptions to the guidance in this section. For example, the armed escort
      of prisoners may be a legitimate use of the GPC even though “escort
      services” qualify as a prohibited transaction. CHs must include the
      results of their consultations and determination to use the GPC in this
      manner with their transaction supporting data.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
