<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_14-3">
    <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">14-3.</ph> Prohibited Transactions</title>
    <conbody>
        <p>The following list identifies supplies and services that are
            prohibited from purchase with the GPC.</p>
        <ul>
            <li>a. <b>Aircraft fuel and oil</b>. The Air card is the appropriate
                procurement method.</li>
            <li>b. <b>Auto Insurance for Government-owned vehicles</b>.</li>
            <li>c. <b>Bail and Bond Payments</b>.</li>
            <li>d. <b>Betting, casino gaming chips, and off-track betting</b>. </li>
            <li>e. <b>Cash advances, including money orders and travelers’
                checks</b>.</li>
            <li>f. <b>Court costs, alimony, and child support</b>.</li>
            <li>g. <b>Cyber Security Prohibitions</b>. IOD creates DM cases for
                all transactions with these company names. These prohibitions
                are for the purposes of public safety, security of Government
                facilities, physical security surveillance of critical
                infrastructure, and other national security purposes.</li>
            <li id="Toc118789490">Table 14-1 – Cyber Security Prohibitions
                Summary</li>
        </ul>
        <table>
            <tgroup cols="3">
                <colspec colnum="1" colwidth="1*" colname="col1"/>
                <colspec colnum="2" colwidth="1*" colname="col2"/>
                <colspec colnum="3" colwidth="1*" colname="col3"/>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <ul>
                            <li> 
                           <b>Prohibition</b> 
                        </li>
                            </ul> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <ul>
                            <li> 
                           <b>Company</b> 
                        </li>
                            </ul> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <ul>
                            <li> 
                           <b>Also Prohibited</b> 
                        </li>
                            </ul> 
                  </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <ul>
                            <li>Covered Article</li>
                            </ul> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <ul>
                            <li>Kaspersky Lab</li>
                            </ul> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <ul>
                            <li>Successor entities</li>
                            </ul> 
                  </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <ul>
                            <li>Telecommunications Equipment</li>
                            </ul> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <ul>
                            <li>Huawei Technologies Co.</li>
                            <li>ZTE Corp.</li>
                            </ul> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <ul>
                            <li>Subsidiaries or Affiliates</li>
                            </ul> 
                  </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <ul>
                            <li>Video surveillance and Telecommunications
                                Equipment</li>
                            </ul> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <ul>
                            <li>Hytera Communications Corp.</li>
                            <li>Hangzhou Hikvision Digital Technology Co.</li>
                            <li>Dahua Technology Co.</li>
                            </ul> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <ul>
                            <li>Subsidiaries or Affiliates</li>
                            </ul> 
                  </entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
        <ul>
            <li>h. <b>Dating and escort services</b>.</li>
            <li>i. <b>Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) settlements</b>.</li>
            <li>j. <b>Fines</b>. Use of the GPC to settle a commercial or
                governmental fine is generally prohibited.</li>
            <li>k. <b>Foreign currency</b>.</li>
            <li>l. <b>Gift Certificates and Gift Cards</b>. Buying gift
                certificates and cards is generally prohibited. Exception: Gift
                certificates and gift cards are considered to be cash advances
                and must not be purchased with the GPC, even to obtain items
                from merchants that do not accept the GPC. As with cash and
                near-cash, gift certificates and gift cards are prohibited
                because they are easily misappropriated and the award of gift
                certificates or gift cards requires the submission of 1099
                reports in accordance with IRS regulations. The Department is
                required to file a form 1099-MISC for payments to individuals
                totaling more than $600 in a tax year. </li>
            <li>m. <b>Kaspersky Lab</b>. Prohibits the use of hardware,
                software, and services of Kaspersky Lab and its related entities
                by the Federal Government.</li>
            <li>n. <b>Military personnel or civilian employee purchases</b>
                (e.g., when Government employees are acting as vendors). </li>
            <li>o. <b>Personal use Purchases</b>.</li>
            <li>p. <b>Pharmaceuticals</b>. Pharmaceuticals must be purchased
                through the DLA supply system.</li>
            <li>q. <b>Repair of leased GSA vehicles</b>. The fleet card is the
                appropriate method for these repairs.</li>
            <li>r. <b>Salaries and Wages</b>.</li>
            <li>s. <b>Savings bonds</b>.</li>
            <li>t. <b>Taxes</b> (e.g., personal taxes).</li>
            <li>u. <b>Telecommunication Systems</b> (e.g., the Federal
                Telecommunications System or DSN system).</li>
            <li>v. <b>Travel Related Expenses, Advances, or Claims</b>. Use of
                the GPC to purchase travel or travel related expenses is
                prohibited in accordance with the DPC 20 Dec 2018 memorandum
                titled “Prohibition on Use of Government Purchase Card for
                Payment of Travel Related Expenses.” Only the travel card is to
                be used for individual official travel-related expenses. All
                travel-related expenses (e.g., metro, taxi, bus fares, EZ Pass,
                automated toll tools, parking fees) are processed in accordance
                with the Joint Travel Regulations (JTR) Chapter 2, Part L. The
                JTR provides examples with formulas (e.g., ordinary travel miles
                to permanent duty station, miles to other sites, cost of fares)
                to determine whether the Government is responsible for the
                travel expense.</li>
            <li>w. <b>Video Surveillance Cameras</b>. Use of the GPC to purchase
                video surveillance cameras is prohibited in the DPC 15 August
                2018 memorandum titled “Government-Wide Commercial Purchase Card
                Prohibited Purchases.”</li>
            <li>x. <b>Wire transfers</b>.</li>
        </ul>
    </conbody>
</concept>
