<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<topic id="AFARS_Appendix-AA_chapter_5">
    <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">CHAPTER 5</ph>
DEFINITIONS</title>
    <body>
      <p id="OLE_LINK3">
        <b>
            <i>Adverse
past performance</i>
        </b> is defined as past performance
information that supports a less than satisfactory rating on any
evaluation. Adverse past performance that must be addressed with
Offerors includes unfavorable comments received from sources such
as those received from respondents from past performance
questionnaires or interviews that have not been finalized within a
formal rating system. A best practice can be to discuss adverse
past performance which caused a rating to be lowered to
Satisfactory Confidence.</p>
      <p>
        <b>
            <i>Due Diligence (Industry) –</i>
        </b> The
process followed by prospective contractors to fully understand the
government requirement in order to submit a complete, responsive
proposal to the government which will result in a successful
acquisition. Methods may include such activities as conducting site
visits, attending industry days, one-on-one sessions with the
acquisition teams, pre-proposal conferences and responding to draft
requests for proposals.</p>
      <p>
        <b>
            <i>Due Diligence (Government)</i>
        </b>
        <b>–</b> The process followed by the government
acquisition team to ensure all prospective contractors are as
informed of the government requirement and method of acquisition as
possible in order to receive a reasonable number of competitive
proposals from industry. Methods may include such activities as
providing for site visits, conducting industry days, one-on-one
sessions with interested vendors, pre-proposal conferences and
sending draft requests for proposals to industry.</p>
      <p>
        <b>
            <i>Evaluation Findings</i>
        </b> are the
evaluator’s written observations/judgments
regarding the individual merits of the proposal against the RFP
requirements.</p>
      <p>
        <b>
            <i>Formal Source Selection</i>
        </b> means the
source selection process used where someone other than the PCO is
the SSA, normally for high dollar value or complex
acquisitions.</p>
      <p>
        <b>
            <i>Other than Small Business</i>
        </b> means
businesses determined to be other than a small business based upon
industry size standards assigned to North American Industry
Classification System (NAICS) code. Includes: large businesses,
state and local government and non-profit companies. May also
include public utilities, educational institutions, and
foreign-owned firms based in the U.S. and contributing to the U.S.
economy through the payment of taxes or otherwise.</p>
      <p>
        <b>
            <i>Minor or Clerical Error</i>
        </b> is a minor
informality or irregularity that is merely a matter of form and not
of substance or a clerical error apparent on its face in the
proposal. These may include obvious misplacement of decimal points,
incorrect discounts, reversal of prices, and mis-designation of
units.</p>
      <p>
        <b>
            <i>Probable Cost or also known as Most Probable
Cost</i>
        </b> is the government’s best estimate of the
costs that a contractor will incur in performing a
cost-reimbursement contract (FAR 15.404-1(d)(2)(i)). The probable
cost must be ascertained by making a cost realism analysis during
the evaluation of each proposal and must be used in making the
source selection decision for best value.</p>
      <p>
        <b>
            <i>Program Manager or Requiring Activity</i>
        </b>
is the entity responsible for providing contract requirements
documents within the RFP that communicates those requirements to
the offeror.</p>
      <p>
        <b>
            <i>Rating</i>
        </b> is the adjective/color
descriptor assigned by the evaluators to the non-Cost/Price Factors
and corresponding Subfactors. It represents their conclusions as to
the quality of the proposal, supported by narrative write-ups
identifying the associated findings (strengths, weaknesses,
deficiencies, risks, and uncertainties).</p>
      <p>
        <b>
            <i>Requirements Documents</i>
        </b> are all aspects
of the RFP that convey the needs of the government to offerors,
including the PWS/SOW/SOO, technical requirement documents, and
system requirement documents. <b>NOTE</b>: All documents
are to be properly safeguarded, to include marking, handling, and
storage in accordance with government controlled unclassified
information (CUI) policy and regulations if not properly marked at
a higher level.</p>
      <p>
        <b>
            <i>Sample Task</i>
        </b> is a hypothetical task
that is given to Offerors during source selection to evaluate their
understanding of the work and their ability to perform the work. It
must be a reasonable representative of the type of work that will
be required. Some rates used to price the task order must be
binding on the contractor for the sample to be valid. Incorporation
of binding rates also applies to any live/real task order.</p>
      <p>
        <b>
            <i>Statement of Objectives (SOO)</i>
        </b> is an
alternative to a statement of work and is provided as part of a
request for proposal (RFP). The SOO provides the government’s
overall objectives of an acquisition/procurement to which an
offeror responds, providing in their proposal a solution and
possible means of support to achieve the contractual objective.</p>
      <p>
        <b>
            <i>Small Business Professional (SBP)</i>
        </b> is
the all-inclusive term used to identify the individuals working in
small business offices that assist requiring activities and
contracting personnel throughout the acquisition process. SBP
support to maximize opportunities for small businesses through
document reviews and procedural guidance relating to market
research, small business goals and subcontracting opportunities
among other functions internal and external to the government.</p>
      <p>
        <b>
            <i>Source Selection</i>
        </b> is the process used
in competitive, negotiated contracting to select the proposal that
offers the best value to the government.</p>
      <p>
        <b>NOTE</b>: A SSAC is only required for acquisitions
over $100M and is NOT required for LPTA evaluation methodology.</p>
      <p>
        <b>
            <i>Source Selection Team</i>
        </b> is a team that
is tailored to the unique acquisition, tasked with carrying out a
source selection. Composition of the team generally consists of the
SSA, PCO (if different from the SSA), SSAC (if applicable), SSEB,
Advisors, Cost/Price Experts, Legal Counsel, small business
professionals, and other subject-matter experts.</p>
      <p>
        <b>
            <i>Standard of Proof</i>
        </b> is the evidence or
standard by which the government (evaluator) determines whether an
offeror has complied with the government’s stated
requirement.</p>
      <p>
        <b>
            <i>Tradeoff Process</i>
        </b> is the competitive
negotiation process where the government evaluates both cost/price
and non-cost/price factors and awards the contract to the offeror
proposing the combination of factors which offer the best value to
the government. The process is appropriate when it is in the
government’s best interest to consider award to other than
the lowest priced offeror or the highest technically rated
offeror.</p>
      <p>The SSA must then determine if a higher rated technical offer is
“worth” the additional cost to the government.</p>
    </body>
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
  </topic>
