<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-AA_3_5">
      <title>3.5 Discussion
Process</title>
      <conbody>
        <p>
          <b>
            <i>
              <u>Competitive Range</u>
            </i>
          </b>
        </p>
        <p>If the competitive range is further reduced for purposes of
efficiency, the basis for this reduction must be adequately
documented. Considerations for further restricting competition may
include expected dollar value of the award, complexity of the
acquisition and solutions proposed, and extent of available
resources (see FAR 15.306(c)).</p>
        <p>
          <b>NOTE<i>:</i>
          </b> Predetermined cut-off ratings
(e.g., setting a minimum rating or identifying a predetermined
number of offerors to be included in the competitive range) must
not be established. The government may not limit a competitive
range for the purposes of efficiency on the basis of technical
scores alone.</p>
        <p>The PCO, with approval of the SSA, should continually reassess
the competitive range as discussions and evaluations continue to
ensure neither the government nor the offerors waste resources by
keeping proposals in the competitive range that are no longer
contenders for award (see DoD Source Selection Procedures 3.4 and
3.5.3).</p>
        <p>
          <b>
            <u>Discussions</u>
          </b>
        </p>
        <p>The government’s objectives, to include the competitive
range decision narrative, shall be fully documented in the
prenegotiation objective memorandum (POM) prior to entering into
discussions (See FAR 15.406-1 and DFARS PGI 215.406-1).</p>
        <p>Meaningful discussions do not include advising the individual
offerors on how to revise their proposal nor does it include
information on how their proposal compares to other offerors’
proposals. </p>
        <p>Additionally, discussions must not be misleading. An
agency’s framing of a discussion question may not
inadvertently mislead an offeror to respond in a manner that does
not address the agency’s concerns, or that misinforms the
offeror concerning its proposal weaknesses or deficiencies or the
government’s requirements.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
