<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_2-7">
  <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">2-7.</ph> Level 6 - Cardholder Duties and Responsibilities</title>
  <conbody>
      <p outputclass="List1">a. CH authority is limited to the threshold indicated on their delegation of authority in JAM.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">b. Use GPC to make authorized purchases within the limits of their delegation of authority in JAM.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">c. Screen all purchase requests upon receipt.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">d. Verify that the requested items meet a legitimate government need.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">e. Notify the BO of unusual or questionable purchase requests.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">f. Check requirements for their availability from the mandatory Government sources.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">g. Make purchases in accordance with FAR Part 8 required sources of supplies and services.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">h. Rotate merchants when practicable.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">i. Allocate transactions to the proper line of accounting.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">j. Obtain BO approval prior to purchase. Obtain all required pre-purchase approvals.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">k. Track receipt/acceptance of purchased goods or services.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">l. Track partial shipments to ensure they are received within the dispute window.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">m. Track any transactions for items not yet received.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">n. Collect, maintain and upload the required purchase documentation in the servicing bank’s EAS.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">o. Match orders and review and reconcile monthly statement.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">p. Register to receive the bank’s Electronic Data Notifications (automated email alerts).</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">q. Resolve unauthorized, erroneous, or questionable transactions with merchants.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">r. Dispute questionable transactions.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">s. Dispute transactions within 90 calendar days from the date the transaction posts to the account.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">t. Dispute unresolved billing errors (e.g., supplies not received by the next billing statement).</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">u. Dispute transactions when receipt and acceptance of goods or services cannot be verified.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">v. Dispute items the merchant fails to replace, modify, or repair by the allotted time.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">w. Resolve any invalid transactions with the merchant.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">x. Track all disputes to completion.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">y. Confirm with the merchant the items ordered are in transit and track the transactions to completion.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">z. Maintain physical security of the GPC and convenience checks to avoid unauthorized use.</p>
      <p>aa. Allow no one but the designated CH to use the card.</p>
      <p>bb. Do not release the account number to entities other than a merchant processing a transaction.</p>
      <p>cc. Notify the BO of a lost, stolen, or compromised GPC within one business day.</p>
      <p>dd. Maintain the bank’s EAS purchase log, which is located under Transaction Management.</p>
      <p>ee. Reconcile all transactions and upload all supporting documentation in the bank’s EAS.</p>
      <p>ff. Approve the account statement within 3 business days of the cycle end date.</p>
      <p>gg. Maintain a manual purchase log if the electronic purchase log in the bank’s EAS is not accessible.</p>
      <p>hh. Ensure the Accountable Property Officer (APO) has screened the purchase request.</p>
      <p>ii. Upload all receipts for the APO to review electronically in the servicing bank’s EAS.</p>
      <p>jj. After items arrive, provide receipts to the supporting APO within five business days.</p>
      <p>kk. Notify the BO when you are not available to approve the CH statement.</p>
      <p>ll. Provide all records and purchase file documentation to the BO upon departure or reassignment.</p>
      <p>mm. Maintain a separation of duties of making purchases and receiving the goods/services.</p>
      <p>nn. Forward requirements exceeding the MPT to the contracting office for purchase.</p>
      <p>oo. Verify and document receipt/acceptance of goods or services.</p>
      <p>pp. Checkwriters - Ensure convenience check data is maintained.</p>
      <p>qq. Checkwriters - Ensure IRS Form 1099 has been completed, reported, and retained.</p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
