<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_10-2">
  <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">10-2.</ph> Establishing a Convenience Check Account</title>
  <conbody>
      <p outputclass="List1">a. Convenience check accounts are dedicated accounts and must be maintained separately from the GPC account. Cardholders may have both a regular GPC account and a separate convenience check account. Checkwriters must ensure that payee information on the convenience check is <b>written legibly</b>. Convenience checks are not to be used for recurring payments.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">b. Any U.S. Government employee, military or civilian, including local national employees, may be selected for appointment as a checkwriter. Traditional part-time National Guard members cannot be checkwriters. Contractors working for the Army cannot be checkwriters.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">c. Requests to establish convenience check accounts must be justified in writing by the organization and forwarded to the Level 4 A/OPC. Required information must consist of the following:</p>
      <p>1) Reason for requesting checks</p>
      <p>2) Types of vendors to which the checks would be written</p>
      <p>3) Estimated dollar amount of checks intended to be written within a 12-month period</p>
      <p>4) Single and monthly purchase limits</p>
      <p>5) Checkwriter’s complete name, office name, address, email, phone/fax number</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">d. Checkwriters must be appointed in PIEE/JAM with the “Micro-Purchase Convenience Check Writer” designation. The checkwriter is the only person who has the authority to issue and sign checks.</p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
