<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_9-4">
   <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">9-4.</ph> Computer Hardware, Enterprise Software and Solutions (CHESS)</title>
   <conbody>
      <p outputclass="List1">a. <xref href="https://chess.army.mil/" format="html" scope="external">CHESS</xref> is the mandatory source for all purchases of
commercial-off-the-shelf software, desktops, notebook computers, video
teleconferencing equipment, and other commercial Information Technology (IT)
equipment (e.g., routers, servers, printers, peripherals, regardless of dollar
value). CHESS is the mandatory source for all Army IT purchases, except for the
Air National Guard, which is exempt from the CHESS requirement and must purchase
IT through <xref href="https://www.afadvantage.gov/" format="html" scope="external">AFADVANTAGE/GSA-2GIT</xref> to retain IT compatibility. Per
AFARS 5108.7403, before procuring commercial software outside of the CHESS
contracts, the contracting officer or contract ordering official CH must ensure
that the requiring activity obtains a waiver. Any IT hardware or software
purchase made outside of CHESS requires a Statement of Non-availability (SoNA).
See AFARS 5139.101-90(a) and AR 25-1.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">b. All desktops and notebooks must be purchased during one of the
Consolidated Buy ordering periods that occur three times annually (Oct/Jan,
Feb/May, and Jun/Sep). Consolidated Buy exception memos are prepared by the
requiring activity and are approved by an O6/GS-15 (or equivalent) within the
requiring activity and must remain a part of the transaction document file. An
exception memo example is available at <xref href="https://chess.army.mil/Content/Page/CB_EXPT"
               format="html"
               scope="external">CHESS Exception Request</xref>.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">c. IT hardware or software purchases require an Army Deputy Chief of Staff
(DCS), G-6 approved Information Technology Approval System (ITAS) Memorandum.
CHs must include the ITAS Approval Memorandum in the transaction file along with
all other supporting documentation. Supporting documentation must include
documentation submitted with the ITAS approval request such as a CHESS SoNA. The
CHESS website provides information concerning ITAS approvals. CHs may also
consult their local command for guidance. The ITAS Approval website is located
at <xref href="https://cprobe.army.mil/enterprise-portal/web/itas/home"
               format="html"
               scope="external">https://cprobe.army.mil/enterprise-portal/web/itas/home</xref>.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">d. Any IT hardware or software purchase made outside of CHESS requires a
SoNA. A SoNA is a notice that a particular product is not currently available
through a CHESS contract. It is not a waiver to purchase, nor does it authorize
use on the Army network. For detailed instructions on SoNA requirements and how
to obtain a SoNA, see <xref href="https://chess.army.mil/Content/Page/SONA"
               format="html"
               scope="external">CHESS SONA</xref>.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
