<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_12-3">
    <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">12-3.</ph> Emergency Thresholds</title>
    <conbody>
        <p>See Tables 12-1, 12-2, and 12-3 for applicable emergency
            micro-purchase thresholds.</p>
        <p id="Toc118789473">Table 12-1: Contingency Contracting Micro-purchase
            Threshold for Supplies</p>
        <table>
            <tgroup cols="2">
                <colspec colnum="1" colwidth="1.3*" colname="col1"/>
                <colspec colnum="2" colwidth="0.7*" colname="col2"/>
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry
                            namest="col1"
                            nameend="col2"> <b>Supplies</b> </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry> <b>Government Purchaser’s Physical Location</b> </entry>
                        <entry> <b>Authorized MPT</b> </entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Inside United States</entry>
                        <entry>$20,000</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Outside United States</entry>
                        <entry>$35,000</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p id="Toc101947121">Table 12-2: Contingency Contracting Micro-purchase
            Threshold for Services</p>
        <table>
            <tgroup cols="3">
                <colspec colnum="1" colwidth="1*" colname="col1"/>
                <colspec colnum="2" colwidth="1.1*" colname="col2"/>
                <colspec colnum="3" colwidth="0.9*" colname="col3"/>
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry namest="col1" nameend="col3"> 
                     <b>Services (Including Services
                            Acquisitions Subject to Service Contract Labor
                            Standards, 41 USC Chapter 67)</b> 
                  </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <b>Government Purchaser’s Physical Location</b> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <b>Place of Performance</b> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <b>Authorized MPT</b> 
                  </entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Inside United States</entry>
                        <entry>Inside or Outside United States</entry>
                        <entry>$20,000</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Outside United States</entry>
                        <entry>Inside United States</entry>
                        <entry>$20,000</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Outside United States</entry>
                        <entry>Outside United States</entry>
                        <entry>$35,000</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p id="Toc101947122">Table 12-3: GPC MPT Values for Convenience
            Checks</p>
        <table>
            <tgroup cols="2">
                <colspec colnum="1" colwidth="1.4*" colname="col1"/>
                <colspec colnum="2" colwidth="0.6*" colname="col2"/>
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry
                            namest="col1"
                            nameend="col2"> <b>GPC Micro-purchase Threshold –
                            Convenience Checks (CC)</b> </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry> <b>Government Purchaser’s Physical Location</b> </entry>
                        <entry> <b>Authorized MPT</b> </entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry>General – Unrelated to Contingency/Other
                            Emergency Uses</entry>
                        <entry>$5,000</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Contingency and Other Emergency Uses (inside
                            U.S.)</entry>
                        <entry>$10,000</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Contingency and Other Emergency Uses (outside
                            U.S.)</entry>
                        <entry>$17,500</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. Cardholders may use the GPC to buy supplies and services for
            authorized contingency efforts. In order to purchase up to the
            contingency MPT, CHs must have the “Micro-Purchase Emergency-Type
            Operations Cardholder and/or Check Writer” designation in their JAM
            appointment. Cardholders may only use this purchasing authority for
            declared, authorized contingency or emergency efforts. Purchases
            using this authority must have a clear and direct relationship to
            the support of the declared operation. Contracting officers may also
            have a “Warranted Overseas Emergency-Type Operations” designation,
            which allows them to purchase up to the applicable simplified
            acquisition threshold for declared operations.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>National Interest Action (NIA) Codes.</b> Cardholders must
            input the NIA code or other assigned codes in the Contingency
            Operations field in the servicing bank’s EAS Access Online Order
            Management for transactions when NIA Codes are issued for
            contingency operations, declared emergency or major disasters,
            defense or recovery from certain events, humanitarian or
            peacekeeping operations, or international disaster assistance
            (referred to as “applicable operations”), and for retaining
            transaction determinations in support of applicable operations.
            Level 4 A/OPCs must track purchases using the NIA code and conduct
            audits on the contingency purchases upon completion of the event.
            For example:</p>
        <p>1) If your HCA has authorized emergency acquisition authorities to
            support and expired event such as Hurricane Ian, then CHs will need
            to manually enter <u>just</u> the description of “Hurricane Ian” in
            the ““ADD’L Code or Event Info” field (Transaction Management) or in
            the “Contingency Operations” field (Order Management).</p>
        <p>2) If your HCA has authorized emergency acquisition authorities to
            support COVID or Ukraine for purchases made <u>after</u> 9/30/2022,
            then CHs will need to manually enter <u>just</u> the description of
            “Ukraine” or “COVID” in the “Contingency Operations” field. </p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
