<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_5-5">
   <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">5-5.</ph> Liability of Cardholders and Billing Officials</title>
   <conbody>
      <p id="Toc101163526" outputclass="List1">a. <b>Liability</b>. Billing officials are personally and
pecuniarily liable for the full amount of any improper payments resulting from
misuse, abuse, or unauthorized purchases of the GPC, in accordance with 31 USC
3528. Strict pecuniary liability applies when there is an erroneous (illegal,
improper, or incorrect) payment. GPC CHs are pecuniarily liable for erroneous
payments that result from the negligent performance of duties, up to one month’s
pay. All accountable officials are required to comply with DoD regulations,
policies, and procedures, including standard operating procedures. Failure to
act in accordance with such regulations, policies, and procedures is generally
considered evidence of negligence. Following orders from superiors that are
contrary to regulations, policies, and procedures, is no defense to negligence
or bad faith. A heavy workload or a lack of experience, supervision, or
training, is not a factor in determining relief from liability.</p>
      <p id="Toc101163528" outputclass="List1">b. Use of the GPC by a CH to make an unauthorized purchase is
the liability of the Government. However, the installation/organization is
responsible for taking appropriate action against the CH including efforts to
recover the funds.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">c. The intentional use of the GPC for other than official Government business
may be considered an attempt to commit fraud against the U.S. Government. Misuse
may result in immediate cancellation of an individual's card, financial
liability, and negative administrative and/or disciplinary action against the CH
and, if warranted, against the BO. Any misuse of the GPC is subject to criminal,
civil, Uniform Code of Military Justice, administrative, and disciplinary
actions as appropriate.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>Cardholders</b>. DoD FMR Volume 5, Chapter 5, paragraph 1.1.2 defines a
CH as a Departmental Accountable Official (DAO). DAOs are accountable officials
that provide information, data, or services that certifying officers rely on to
certify vouchers. DoD Directive 7000.14-R imposes financial liability for
negligent performance of the CH’s duties. DAOs will be personally and
pecuniarily liable for erroneous payments that result from the negligent
performance of duties.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">e. <b>Billing Officials</b>. 31 USC 3528 provides for personal and pecuniary
liability for improper payments resulting from misuse/abuse of the purchase card
for Certifying Officials. The BO meets the definition for Certifying Officer in
the DoD FMR; as such, the BO is financially liable for improper payments
resulting from misuse or abuse. The act of certifying a billing statement for
payment makes the BO financially responsible for illegal, improper, or incorrect
payment due to an inaccurate or misleading certification. Consequently, a BO who
knowingly makes a false certification may be asked to repay the Government for
the items or service purchased. If unsure about certification, BOs should
contact the supporting Level 4 A/OPC for guidance.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">f. <b>SCO Oversight</b>. The SCO and/or CCO have responsibility for the
operation of the GPC program for their activity. The SCO is responsible for
establishing effective internal controls that will ensure the appropriate
management, operation, and oversight of the local GPC program. The SCO must
establish and maintain a command climate to prevent the requiring activity from
exercising undue influence over the actions of a cardholder. The SCO will
establish local policies and procedures identifying informal and formal
disciplinary actions to be taken in the event of noncompliance, fraud, misuse,
and abuse. Disciplinary actions should be based on the severity and frequency of
the infraction and can range from informal actions (such as written or verbal
counseling) to demotion, removal, or potential criminal prosecution.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">g. <b>Investigation Required</b>. Commands must be notified when evidence of
fraud or other criminal activity is identified. Evidence of deliberate abuse
will be referred to the CH’s and/or BO’s command for appropriate action. The
investigation must provide the Army employee or military member with an
opportunity to rebut the presumed liability. 
      </p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
