<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_10-5">
  <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">10-5.</ph> Why Decrease Use of Convenience Checks?</title>
  <conbody>
      <p outputclass="List1">a. <b>No Refunds</b>. Check transactions do not receive refunds otherwise
      provided on by use of the GPC.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>Minimized fraud</b>. Checks often do not require signature
      verification, which could lead to fraudulent transactions. In addition,
      they do not carry the same “paper trail” as other electronic payment
      methods, which may lead to misuse.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>Streamlined processes</b>. Electronic payments, like the GPC, help
      facilitate smoother transactions, enhance transparency, save time, and
      lead to improved data monitoring capabilities.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>Green initiatives</b>. Electronic payments help reduce paper usage
      and aid agencies in meeting their sustainability goals. Records also
      reside in a central location which will make it easier to locate and
      verify information.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">e. <b>Increased consumer protection</b>. The GPC provides the opportunity
      for a much quicker reimbursement to a customer who may be unsatisfied with
      a product or service or who is charged incorrectly.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">f. <b>Less hassle</b>. Check transactions must be reported to the IRS
      using a 1099 form. Alternatively, in accordance with Section 6050W of the
      Housing Assistance Tax Act (Public Law 110-289), agencies are no longer
      required to report charge card transactions to the IRS using the 1099
      form.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">g. <b>Time and Cost Savings</b>. Utilizing a GPC instead of a convenience
      check delivers tremendous time and cost savings, leaving more time for
      mission-critical activities.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">h. <b>Improved merchant-client relationship</b>. When a GPC is used,
      merchants are paid within three days of the transaction. They receive a
      guaranteed payment and as a result, are able to provide greater security,
      reports, and data to the customer. This increases satisfaction on both
      sides of the transaction.</p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
