<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_11-10">
   <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">11-10.</ph> Reporting and Monitoring for Fraud</title>
   <conbody>
      <p outputclass="List1">a. <b>Reports for Identifying and Preventing Fraud</b>. A/OPCs should use the
following reports to identify potential card misuse and fraud and to prevent
fraud from occurring:</p>
      <p>1) <b>Declined Transaction Authorizations Report</b>. This report identifies
cardholders who have attempted to use an account to buy an item for which they
are not authorized, that exceeds their single purchase limit, that exceeds their
monthly purchase limit, or from a merchant that falls under a blocked MCC.</p>
      <p>2) <b>Transaction Detail Report</b>. This report identifies the date,
merchant, reason code, dollar amount, and status of each dispute filed by CH.
BOs and A/OPCs should track and follow up on disputes to determine their
outcomes. Cardholders should attempt to resolve disputes directly with merchants
prior to filing a disputes report. If a merchant is consistently appearing on
the disputes report, the A/OPC should determine whether the merchant may have
billing issues, quality issues, or is attempting to commit fraud by submitting
false transactions.</p>
      <p>3) <b>Unusual Spending Activity Report</b>. This report identifies
transactions that may warrant further review.</p>
      <p>4) <b>Account Status Change Report.</b> This report lists accounts with a
change status of lost/stolen, closed, or reopened accounts. This status may
either be an indicator that the CH needs to secure the account or that the CH is
attempting to disguise misuse or fraudulent activity by denying the charges.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>Reporting Fraud</b>. All identified instances of suspected fraud or
abuse must be reported. Various channels of reporting include the Chain of
Command, the A/OPC, the command’s procurement fraud advisor (Staff/Command Judge
Advocate), the servicing Criminal Investigation Division office, internal review
organizations, and Inspector Generals at all levels. When a Defense criminal
investigative organization or Defense organizational element responsible for
investigating potential misconduct involving the GPC initiates an investigation
into allegations of charge card violations regarding a GPC, the CH’s commander
or second-line supervisor, as appropriate, and security manager must be
notified. Whenever possible, this notification should take place within 72 hours
of the initiation. See DoD Charge Card Guidebook A.1.11.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
