<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_11-2">
   <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">11-2.</ph> Internal Management Controls</title>
   <conbody>
      <p outputclass="List1">a. Management officials are responsible for establishing a system of internal
controls that provides reasonable assurance that the GPC program is efficiently,
effectively, and legally achieving its purpose and complies with applicable laws
and regulations.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">b. Required internal management controls include the following:</p>
      <p>1) <b>Management Controls</b>. GPC programs will evaluate the expected
benefits and related costs of internal control activities.</p>
      <p>2) <b>Training</b>. All GPC program participants will receive appropriate
role-based training.</p>
      <p>3) <b>Delegation of Authority</b>. GPC programs will clearly document
Delegations of Procurement Authority beginning with a DFARS-designated
Contracting Activity (DFARS PGI 202.101) down to each CH. Each program
participant will receive and sign the delegation and appointment documents
(e.g., Delegation of Procurement Authority letters, appointment letters, and DD
Form 577) required for their role.</p>
      <p>4) <b>System Functional Responsibility Controls</b>. Electronic systems used
to support the DoD GPC program will segregate role-based capabilities and limit
access to functions to only individuals with appropriate authority. The system
will be able to identify who made any data/file content changes in the
end-to-end GPC process.</p>
      <p>5) <b>System Access Security</b>. Appropriate safeguards will be in place to
control issuance of user IDs and access credentials to the EAS.</p>
      <p>6) <b>CH Account Initiation</b>. Only personnel in the CH's supervisory chain
are authorized to request the opening of a new CH account. This request must
identify appropriate card parameters.</p>
      <p>7) <b>Authorization Controls</b>. Appropriate spending limits, budget (i.e.,
credit) limits, and MCC access will be established and tailored to each CH
account. Spending limits and MCC access should reflect historical buying
patterns/ trends.</p>
      <p>8) <b>Purchase Log</b>. All CHs maintain a purchase log on the servicing
bank’s EAS unless a waiver is granted and signed by Army. If a waiver is
granted, CHs will document purchase information for each GPC transaction in an
electronic log in the automated system where the individual card transactions
and billing statements are approved and certified for payment.</p>
      <p>9) <b>Maintain Positive System of Funds Control</b>. Spending limits (such as
single purchase and credit limits) are tied directly to the funding allocated
for each card account (monthly, quarterly, and semiannually). Limits should be
consistent with historical spending patterns to minimize Government exposure and
ensure adequate funds availability. This control helps ensure that funding is
available prior to purchases being made with the GPC.</p>
      <p>10) <b>Ensure Separation of Duties</b>. Key duties must be assigned to
different individuals to the greatest extent possible to minimize the risk of
loss to the Government. Examples of key duties include making purchases (CH),
authorizing payments (BO), certifying funding (Resource Managers), and reviewing
and auditing purchase activity (A/OPC).</p>
      <p>11) <b>Span of Control</b>. To ensure GPC program participants have
sufficient time to complete required reviews, GPC programs will abide by
established span of control limits.</p>
      <p>12) <b>Reconcile and Approve the CH Statement</b>. During each billing cycle,
CHs are required to match orders and reconcile the statement they receive from
the issuing bank against the purchase card log in the bank’s EAS.</p>
      <p>13) <b>Reconcile and Certify the Managing Account Statement</b>. After the CH
has approved the statement, the BO must approve or reject each purchase made by
CHs in the BO’s managing account. When the BO has reviewed each invoice, the BO,
acting in the role of Certifying Officer, certifies the entire invoice as legal,
proper, and correct. A/OPCs must track managing account certification after the
end of the billing cycle.</p>
      <p>14) <b>Exercise Dispute Authority</b>. Cardholders have 90 days from the date
the transaction posted to the account to dispute the transaction, when
needed.</p>
      <p>15) <b>Maintain Authorization Controls</b>. A/OPCs must add the appropriate
MCC filters to each CH account.</p>
      <p>16) <b>Ensure Systems Access Security</b>. Appropriate safeguards must be in
place to control issuance and safeguarding of access credentials to the EAS.</p>
      <p>17) <b>Ensure Available Funding Integrity</b>. Certified LOAs must be
traceable through disbursement. All changes to LOAs must be documented and
certified.</p>
      <p>18) <b>Ensure Invoice Integrity</b>. An electronic certification process
ensures the original electronic invoice is traceable from the vendor through the
certification and entitlement processes and retained in a Government record.
Should the original invoice submitted by the contractor be in paper form, the
Certifying Officer will determine if the invoice is proper for payment and affix
his/her signature in accordance with the governing provisions of the DoD FMR. If
appropriate, the Certifying Officer makes any required “pen and ink” changes on
the original invoice to reallocate the payment to different funding lines from
those reflected on the original invoice. The Certifying Officer determines
whether these changes are proper and affix his/her signature with the standard
certification language on the original paper invoice.</p>
      <p>19) <b>System Administration Integrity/Data Exchange/Transaction
Security</b>. Changes to the operating system environment will be documented in
accordance with the DoD Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation
(DIACAP) process.</p>
      <p>20) <b>Transaction Data Integrity</b>. The original transaction/invoice will
be maintained and cannot be altered.</p>
      <p>21) <b>Data Mining</b>. Implement a data mining capability that reviews all
GPC transactions.</p>
      <p>22) <b>Inactive and Purged Accounts</b>. A/OPCs must perform an annual review
of the ongoing need for existing card accounts. A/OPCs should terminate accounts
with no activity for more than six months or document the need for the account
to remain open. The servicing bank purges inactive accounts monthly, depending
on the status of the account.</p>
      <p>23) <b>Terminated, Voluntarily Closed, and Fraud Referral status</b>.
Servicing bank purges the account after 13 months of inactivity.</p>
      <p>24) <b>Open status</b>. Servicing bank purges the account after 21 months of
inactivity.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
