<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_8-1">
   <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">8-1.</ph> SF 182 Training Payments (Non-FAR based training actions)</title>
   <conbody>
      <p outputclass="List1">a. <b>References</b>. 5 USC 4109 gives the head of an agency the authority to
pay for training and makes Training, Education and Professional Development
(TE&amp;PD) services a valid expense of the U.S. Government. DoD FMR Volume 10,
Chapter 12 provides authority for Miscellaneous Payments of TE&amp;PD both as a
direct reimbursement to employee and payment to non-Government sources. DoDI
1400.25, Volume 410 provides policy and conditions to make a Miscellaneous
Payment for TE&amp;PD services directly to a non-Government source. This same
instruction requires specific conditions to be met in order to use the GPC. FAR
13 provides authority for Simplified Acquisition and micro-purchase of services.
DoD policy is to use the GPC to make FMR-based Miscellaneous Payments for
TE&amp;PD services from non-Government sources. Because the preference is to pay
the vendor or educational institution directly as opposed to reimbursing the
employee, the FMR refers to this DoD Instruction. 5 USC 4109 authorizes the head
of an agency, under the regulations prescribed in 5 USC 4118(a)(8), to reimburse
employees for necessary training expenses (e.g., tuition and matriculation fees;
library and laboratory services; purchase or rental of books, materials, and
supplies; and other services or facilities directly related to employee
training). See DoDI 1400.25 Volume 410 for additional information regarding the
appropriate use.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>SF 182</b>. The SF 182 (Authorization, Agreement, and Certification of
Training) is the authorized and required training obligating document. GPC
payments for commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) training must be accompanied by an
SF 182 or approved equivalent. Authorized training may be provided by Government
or non-Government sources. Each student attending training must complete an SF
182. A single SF 182 must not be used for a group of individuals to attend
training. CHs must include the signed SF 182 or equivalent and a copy of the
training certificate or proof of completion in their file documentation. See
Army Publications for the current version of the SF 182.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">c. The GPC will be the method of payment for all commercial training
requirements using the SF 182, valued at or below $25,000, in lieu of an
employee reimbursement by miscellaneous payments in accordance with the DoD FMR
Volume 10, Chapter 12, Section 3.23, and DoDI 1400.25, Volume 410. The SF 182 is
not a FAR-based transaction. As such, the MPT for services does not apply to
these types of transactions. DoD has made a determination and uses the GPC to
purchase training authorized by use of a single SF 182 to a cap of $25,000 per
transaction.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">d. The GPC will be used by CHs (primarily TE&amp;PD Educational Office
personnel) to pay for COTS training and education up to a single purchase limit
of $25,000. See AFARS 5113.270-90(g).</p>
      <p> 
         <b>Individual Slots in Existing Training Course</b>. Each slot purchased may
be considered its own transaction, even when paid together. Each student must
have an approved SF 182. Each slot must be below $25,000 per student. CHs may
purchase each slot as a separate transaction or may combine the slots into a
single transaction for the total amount. To be considered COTS, training from
non-Government sources must meet the following criteria:</p>
      <p>1) <b>Regularly scheduled.</b> The TE&amp;PD event can be found in an
established offering, whether in print or online. The event does not have to be
held on a scheduled date and time if the training provider makes it available at
any time, such as an online course.</p>
      <p>2) <b>Off-the-shelf TE&amp;PD service available to the general public.</b>
The service is a commercially available TE&amp;PD event or a planned series of
the same event, activity, service, or material, requiring no modification prior
to use. Such training may occur on or off federal property and may include
non-federal employees.</p>
      <p>3) <b>Priced the same for everyone in the same category.</b> The service is
priced the same per student, course, service, or training space. In other words,
the same event is offered at an equal price to all customers.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
