<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_2-4">
    <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">2-4.</ph> Primary and Alternate Level 3 A/OPC Duties and Responsibilities</title>
    <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. Implement, administer, and monitor the ACOM GPC program subject to DoD and Army policies.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. Serve as a liaison with all GPC Program stakeholders (e.g., HQDA, DPC, GSA, AAA, Bank, etc.)</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. Review and submit monthly and semi-annual IOD reports.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. Inform Level 2 A/OPC of GPC program trends and issues as they arise.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. Provide program support to ACOM and installation Level 4 A/OPCs.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">f. Establish and implement ACOM-specific policy and guidelines.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">g. Develop/implement program internal control requirements and surveillance plan.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">h. Participate in GPC program meetings and events.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">i. Suspend accounts and administer corrective actions for non-compliance.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">j. Ensure all Level 4 A/OPCs meet education, training, and certification requirements.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">k. Track training for Level 4 A/OPCs in PIEE/JAM.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">l. Ensure all Level 4 A/OPCs hold appointment letters in PIEE/JAM.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">m. Lead implementation of GPC systems at the Command level.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">n. Coordinate GPC program changes with CPM (e.g., hierarchy changes, Level 3 appointments).</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">o. Respond to data calls in a timely manner and with concise, current data.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">p. Oversee Level 4 A/OPC program controls, including managing account reviews and IOD reviews.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">q. Manage agent numbers and periodically assess the ongoing need for agent numbers.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">r. Manage enterprise data mining processes per DPC policy and procedures.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">s. Maintain managing accounts to meet mission needs.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">t. Communicate policy updates, procedure changes, and other information to Level 4 A/OPCs.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">u. Process and retain waivers, exceptions and deviations.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">v. Review and submit weekly, monthly, quarterly and annual reports as required.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">w. Seek out trends and best practices to improve the Program.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">x. Implement innovative means to increase rebates, lower administrative costs and merchant prices.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">y. Proactively address and resolve emails at the lowest level.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">z. Resolve deficiencies and discrepancies impacting program effectiveness and efficiencies.</p>
        <p>aa. Perform PMRs every three years.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
