<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_2-9">
      <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">2-9.</ph> Management of the GPC Program</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. The ODASA(P) has overall responsibility for the
management of the Army GPC program. The ODASA(P) appoints a CPM,
also known as the Level 2 A/OPC, to manage the Army GPC program.
The SCO, or in activities that do not have a SCO, the CCO or
equivalent, designates, at a minimum, one Level 3 OA/OPC and an
alternate Level 3 OA/OPC who, once appointed in JAM, is dedicated
to the management of the GPC Program within their
agency/organization. The SCO or CCO may further delegate in writing
the authority to appoint the Level 3 and 4 A/OPCs in accordance
with Army policy. Level 3 A/OPCs with authority to delegate
procurement authority must have the corresponding appointment
letter in JAM to appoint Level 4 A/OPCs. Level 4 A/OPCs may appoint
CHs and billing officials in JAM if they are given the authority to
delegate procurement authority and have the corresponding
appointment letter in JAM. Certifying officers must be appointed by
the organization’s designated DD 577 appointing authority in
JAM.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. The Level 3 OA/OPC duties and responsibilities
at Army major command headquarters typically warrant a grade (or
equivalent thereof) of GS-14, preferably in the contracting career
field. Exceptions may apply. The Level 3 A/OPC duties and
responsibilities for non-headquarter commands typically warrant a
grade of GS-12 to GS-14, preferably in the contracting career
field, but exceptions may apply if approved by the SCO or CCO.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. The Level 4 A/OPC duties and responsibilities
typically warrant a grade (or equivalent thereof) of GS-11 to GS-12
in any career field (e.g., 1101, 1105, or 343) if they meet the
knowledge, skills, and abilities listed below. Exceptions may
apply. The grade should reflect the corresponding complexity of
their duties and responsibilities. The A/OPC will be designated by
the appropriate contracting official to be responsible for the
management, administration, and day-to-day operation of the GPC
program at the activity. Written delegations are required in JAM,
and each A/OPC will be granted the appropriate system access (e.g.,
JAM, bank EAS) associated with their role.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. Level 3 and 4 A/OPCs must complete the training
requirements detailed in Chapter 4. Only individuals who possess
the following knowledge, skills, and abilities may be appointed as
Level 3 and 4 A/OPCs for the GPC Program:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Understanding of the relevant GPC policies,
procedures, and commercial contracting practices.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Understanding of the relevant procurement laws
and regulations.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Understanding of what constitutes an authorized
purchase transaction.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) Understanding of procurement methods and
standards.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">5) Ability to communicate, organize, and manage
tasks effectively.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">6) Basic analytical and computer skills.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">7) Ability to summarize data, prepare reports and
write effectively using proper grammar, punctuation, and tone.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">8) Ability to analyze, research, and provide
concise recommendations to the chain of command on required actions
to anticipate, prevent, or correct problems in business processes
that are supported by the GPC.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. The Government Charge Card Abuse and Prevention
Act of 2012 requires all Executive Branch agencies to establish and
maintain safeguards and internal controls to prevent waste, fraud,
and abuse of purchase cards. Internal controls are tools to help
program and financial managers achieve results and safeguard the
integrity of their programs. Effective internal controls provide
reasonable assurance that significant risks or weaknesses adversely
impacting the agency's ability to meet its objectives are
prevented, minimized, or are detected in a timely manner. The Level
3 and Level 4 A/OPC will notify the BO or CH of any action taken
due to a BO’s or CH’s non-compliance with Army policies
and procedures.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">f. Level 3 and Level 4 A/OPCs have the authority
to apply internal controls such as suspending or cancelling BO or
CH accounts; lowering credit limits; adding or deleting Merchant
Category Codes (MCC); and initiating additional controls as
necessary to comply with GPC policies and procedures.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">g. Results of legal reviews are not sufficient
justification for CHs to proceed with a particular purchase. If a
CH or BO is unsure if they can proceed with a questionable
purchase, they should contact the Level 4 A/OPC for guidance and
confirm authority prior to making the purchase.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">h. Army agencies and organizations must provide
adequate resources dedicated to the GPC program within their
agency/organization to ensure successful management of the program.
Adequate GPC resources refer to an agency’s efficient and
effective deployment of assets (e.g., span of control, personnel,
training, funding, facilities, and deployment of knowledge and
skills) as needed to comply with the policies, procedures, laws,
and regulations governing the GPC Program. Adequate resources must
be deployed to reasonably ensure that programs achieve their
intended results; resources are used consistently with agency
mission; programs and resources are protected from fraud, waste,
and mismanagement; laws and regulations are followed; and reliable
and timely information is obtained, maintained, and reported for
decision-making.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">i. The local contracting office must coordinate
with the local personnel office to ensure procedures are
established requiring all individuals to coordinate with the Level
4 A/OPC when they out-process from the Army command or
activity.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
