<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_11-5">
    <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">11-5.</ph> Monthly A/OPC Reviews</title>
    <conbody>
        <p>A/OPCs and CPMs must complete monthly reviews within IOD to promote
            and measure compliance with internal controls and provide reasonable
            assurance of the effectiveness of these controls to mitigate program
            risk. A/OPCs and CPMs are required to complete monthly review(s)
            each billing cycle. IOD automatically assigns and generates monthly
            reviews, which become available for completion once all transactions
            for that agent and billing cycle have been closed. Monthly reviews
            are considered complete only if 100 percent of all cases selected
            during the billing cycle have been adjudicated.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. <b>A/OPC Monthly Review</b>. Level 4 A/OPCs must complete this
            review once all BOs have completed all cases assigned to them. The
            A/OPC reviews the internal controls summary and inputs requested
            data in IOD. Level 4 A/OPCs will complete monthly reviews within 30
            days of the billing cycle end date. A/OPCs must also perform a
            summary assessment (e.g., using bank reports) of 100% of
            transactions made during the billing cycle to ensure awareness of
            purchasing activity and identify purchasing and behavior patterns
            not otherwise identified by IOD. A/OPCs must also ensure that cases
            are created for each finding that they identify independently (i.e.,
            not automatically flagged by IOD).</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>OA/OPC Monthly Review</b>. Level 3 A/OPCs must complete this
            review once all Level 4 A/OPCs assigned to them have completed their
            monthly reviews. The A/OPC reviews the internal controls summary for
            their program and concurs with the findings, determinations, and any
            corrective actions planned or taken. Level 3 A/OPCs are also
            required to spot-check the monthly reviews conducted by their Level
            4 A/OPCs. Level 3 A/OPCs will complete monthly reviews within 10
            calendar days of their Level 4 A/OPCs’ completion.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>CPM Monthly Review</b>. CPMs (Level 2 A/OPCs) must complete
            this review once all Level 3 A/OPCs assigned to them have completed
            their monthly reviews.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. If a monthly review cannot be completed because the BO or A/OPC
            and their alternates are deployed and have insufficient access to
            IOD, the Level 3 A/OPC may mark them as “Deployed” in IOD and give
            approval to complete the monthly review.</p>
        <p id="Toc101947108">Table 11-2: Monthly A/OPC Review Cycle Dates</p>
        <table>
            <tgroup cols="3">
                <colspec colnum="1" colwidth="1*" colname="col1"/>
                <colspec colnum="2" colwidth="1*" colname="col2"/>
                <colspec colnum="3" colwidth="1*" colname="col3"/>
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <b>Action</b> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <b>Review Cycle Milestones</b> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <b>Compliance Mechanism</b> 
                  </entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Level 4 A/OPC completes the monthly review and
                            A/OPC Monthly Checklist in IOD</entry>
                        <entry>Cycle End Date + 30 days</entry>
                        <entry>Not applicable</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Level 3 A/OPC completes the OA/OPC Monthly Review
                            and certifies completion in IOD</entry>
                        <entry>Cycle End Date + 40 days</entry>
                        <entry>OA/OPCs may suspend the appropriate account(s) at
                            30 days if DM cases and A/OPC Monthly Reviews are
                            not complete.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>CPM completes review and certifies completion in
                            IOD</entry>
                        <entry>Cycle End Date + 55 days</entry>
                        <entry>CPM suspends appropriate account(s) at 55 days if
                            DM cases and A/OPC Monthly Reviews are not
                            complete.</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
    </conbody>
</concept>
