<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_APPENDIX-AA_c-10">
        <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">C-10</ph> LPTA Requirement and Standard of Proof Samples</title>
        <conbody>
          <table>
            <tgroup cols="3">
              <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.1*"/>
              <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.1*"/>
              <colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" colwidth="0.8*"/>
              <thead>
                <row>
                  <entry nameend="col3" namest="col1">
                    <b>LPTA REQUIREMENT/STANDARD OF PROOF SAMPLES</b>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <b>
                        <u>SUPPLIES</u>
                    </b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <p>
                        <b>
                           <u>PROFESSIONAL SERVICES</u>
                        </b>
                    </p>
                    <p>
                        <b>Corporate</b>
                    </p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <b>
                        <u>SIMPLE SERVICES</u>
                    </b>
                  </entry>
                </row>
              </thead>
              <tbody>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <p>
                        <b>Criteria:</b> All illumination must be provided by
LED lights drawing a maximum of 5 amps (C.13.1)</p>
                    <p>
                        <b>Question on Technical Information Questionnaire
(TIQ):</b> Are all the lights of the Light Emitting Diode
(LED) type and a maximum combined draw of 5 amps?</p>
                    <p>
                        <b>Standard of Proof:</b> Manufacturer’s spec
sheets showing LED characteristics.</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <p>
                        <b>Criteria:</b> Five program analysts with a
Bachelor’s Degree in a business discipline with a minimum of
10 years of program analyst experience or a post-graduate degree in
a business discipline (Master’s or Doctorate) with a minimum
of 5 years of program analyst experience.</p>
                    <p>
                        <b>Question on Technical Information Questionnaire
(TIQ):</b> Do all of the program analyst executives possess
either a Bachelor’s Degree in a business discipline with a
minimum of 10 years of program analyst experience or a
post-graduate degree in a business discipline (Master’s or
Doctorate) with a minimum of 5 years of program analyst
experience?</p>
                    <p>
                        <b>Standard of proof:</b> Resume showing degree and
years of experience as specified.</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <p>
                        <b>Criteria:</b> Contractor shall possess storage
facility to store all equipment listed in attachment X within 15
miles of Arsenal (15 radial miles from geographic center of
Arsenal).</p>
                    <p>
                        <b>Question on Technical Information Questionnaire
(TIQ):</b> Does the Offeror possess storage facility that
meets 15-mile requirement listed in Section C.4.4?</p>
                    <p>
                        <b>Standard of proof:</b> Provide evidence of
ownership or lease of facility that meets requirements listed in
Section C.4.4.</p>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <p>
                        <b>Criteria:</b> The vehicle must be transportable by
C-17, C-5, and military sea and rail IAW ATPD XXXX Section 3.1.X
and 3.1.X</p>
                    <p>
                        <b>Question on Technical Information Questionnaire
(TIQ):</b> Does the width of the vehicle exceed 96”?</p>
                    <p>
                        <b>Standard of Proof:</b> CAD drawing with all outside
dimensions noted.</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry morerows="1">
                    <p>
                        <b>Criteria:</b> Five Communications Personnel with
minimum of 4 years of experience with military tactical or
satellite communications system.</p>
                    <p>
                        <b>Question on Technical Information Questionnaire
(TIQ):</b> Do all of the candidates have a minimum of 4 years
of experience with military tactical or satellite communications
system?</p>
                    <p>
                        <b>Standard of Proof:</b> Resumes showing years of
experience as specified.</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry morerows="1">
                    <p>
                        <b>Criteria:</b> Offerors must possess the equipment
required to refinish a 3,500 sq. ft. wood floor.</p>
                    <p>
                        <b>Question on Technical Information</b>
                        <b>Questionnaire (TIQ):</b> Does the Offeror own or lease
equipment that will be used to refinish a 3,500 sq. ft. wood floor
IAW C.4.5?</p>
                    <p>
                        <b>Standard of Proof:</b> Specify list of equipment
and certificates of ownership for equipment or lease
agreements.</p>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <p>
                        <b>Requirement:</b> Engine must be able to be operated
with JP-8 (C.1.3)</p>
                    <p>
                        <b>Question on TIQ:</b> Does the vehicle run on JP-8
IAW ATPD- XXXX Section 3.3.5.1?</p>
                    <p>
                        <b>Standard of Proof:</b> Manufacturer’s spec
sheet for engine.</p>
                  </entry>
                </row>
              </tbody>
            </tgroup>
          </table>
        </conbody>
      </concept>
