<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_7-2">
   <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">7-2.</ph> Refund References</title>
   <conbody>
      <p id="Toc101163550" outputclass="List1">a. <b>References</b>.</p>
      <p>1) DoD Charge Card Guidebook ,Paragraph A.4.9</p>
      <p>2) OMB Circular A-123 Appendix B, Paragraph 7</p>
      <p>3) Public Law 110-116, Section 8067</p>
      <p>4) DoD FMR Volume 10 Ch. 23 Section 230207 and Vol. 10 Ch. 2 Section 020206
and 020302</p>
      <p id="Toc101163551" outputclass="List1">b. <b>DoD Charge Card Guidebook Paragraph A.4.9.1. Application
of Refunds</b>. Pursuant to permanent authority enacted in the Fiscal Year 2008
DoD Appropriation Act, P.L. 110-116, Section 8067, refunds attributable to the
use of the GPC may be credited to operation and maintenance, and research,
development, test and evaluation accounts of DoD that are current when the
refunds are received. They may be applied at the agency or CH level, depending
on the policies of the specific agency and issuing bank task order.</p>
      <p id="Toc101163552" outputclass="List1">c. <b>OMB Circular A-123 Appendix B Paragraph 7.5.</b> Unless
specific authority exists allowing refunds to be used for other purposes,
refunds must be returned to the appropriation or account from which they were
expended and can be used for any legitimate purchase by the appropriation or
account to which they were returned, or as otherwise authorized by statute.</p>
      <p id="Toc101163553" outputclass="List1">d. <b>Public Law 110-116, Section 8067.</b> Refunds
attributable to the use of the purchase card may be credited to operation and
maintenance; and research, development, test and evaluation accounts of the DoD
which are current when the refunds are received.</p>
      <p id="Toc101163554" outputclass="List1">e. <b>DoD FMR Vol. 10 Ch. 23 Section 230207 and Vol. 10 Ch. 2
Section 020206 and 020302.</b> 
      </p>
      <p id="Toc101163555">1) <b>230207 Paragraph 2.7.2. Purchase Card Refunds.</b>
Rebates attributable to the use of the purchase card may be credited to
operation and maintenance; and research, development, test and evaluation
accounts of the DoD which are current when the rebates are received. See 10 USC
4754, “Crediting of Refunds.” In accordance with OMB Circular A-123, Appendix B,
Chapter 7, refunds can be used for any legitimate purchase by the appropriation
or account to which they were returned, or as otherwise authorized by statute.
Transaction credits, which are funds sent back to DoD from the contracted bank
resulting from returned items, billing errors, overpayments, duplicate payments,
or erroneous payments, must be credited to the original appropriation from which
they were disbursed. 
      </p>
      <p>2) <b>020206 Authoritative Guidance.</b> Vendors and contractors offer
discounts, and banks issue various government purchase cards that provide
refunds to encourage early payment of their receivables. DoD will take advantage
of the discount and refund offers only when it is economically justified and
advantageous to the DoD. The DoD will follow the supporting guidelines for
taking discounts and refunds found in Title 5 of the Code of Federal Regulations
(CFR) 1315, FAR 32.906(e), and OMB Circular A 123, Appendix B, Chapter 7.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
