<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-AA_b-1">
        <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">B-1</ph> Subjective Tradeoff</title>
        <conbody>
          <p>Where the tradeoff source selection process is used to obtain
best value, <b>
              <i>the subjective tradeoff process is
appropriate for most Army source selections.</i>
            </b> The
subjective tradeoff process provides the following benefits in
source selection:</p>
          <p> The ability for offerors to propose various technical
approaches that may be of benefit to the government. The
competitive environment should encourage the freedom to do so
depending upon what the solicitation places the most
value/importance upon;</p>
          <p> The ability to have meaningful comparisons and
establish discriminators among competing proposals;</p>
          <p> The ability to place a greater value on past
performance by enabling discernment of an offeror’s
performance record;</p>
          <p> The ability of the SSA to give consideration to the
benefit/value of non-cost/price factor differences between offerors
and to determine if those differences justify paying the cost/price
differential between them.</p>
          <p>When using this process, clearly:</p>
          <p> State the relative importance of the factors and
subfactors;</p>
          <p> Describe, in Section L, the approaches or capabilities
that the government places a higher value on for exceeding the
threshold (minimum) requirements if applicable, and;</p>
          <p> Describe, in Section M, how the government will
evaluate these areas and assign findings (strengths or significant
strengths) correlated to the expected positive impact or benefit
received when the offeror exceeds threshold requirements.</p>
          <p>
            <b>
              <i>Use of Entry-Gate Criteria –</i>
            </b> As
part of the subjective tradeoff source selection process, the DoD
Source Selection Procedures allows for the use of entry-gate
criteria. This is considered a combination approach utilizing
concepts from both LPTA and Subjective Tradeoff. When determining
your evaluation criteria, the PM and the PCO should closely examine
the key requirements and carefully consider whether some objective
elements (i.e., entry-gate criteria) could be evaluated using an
acceptable/unacceptable or pass/fail rating methodology. During the
evaluation of proposals, offerors must be determined to be
acceptable or pass the entry-gate criteria in order to advance in
the subjective tradeoff evaluation. When the requirement can be
clearly stated with a corresponding standard of proof, using this
combination approach with entry-gate criteria can simplify and
streamline the evaluation process. See also Appendix C for more
information on acceptable/ unacceptable criteria.</p>
        </conbody>
      </concept>
