<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_APPENDIX-AA_Chapter-5" xml:lang="en-US">
    <title outputclass="Heading 1 Subpart">CHAPTER 5: DEFINITIONS</title>
    <conbody>
        <p id="p_OLE_LINK4"><b><i>Affordability </i></b><b><i>Caps </i></b>are the approved cost
            constraints for major systems acquisitions determined by the resources a DoD component
            can allocate, which provide a threshold for procurement and sustainment costs that
            cannot be exceeded. For other procurements, this is the approved funding allocated for a
            given acquisition.</p>
        <p><b><i>Adverse past performance</i></b> is defined as past performance information that
            supports a less than satisfactory rating on any evaluation. Adverse past performance
            that must be addressed with Offerors includes unfavorable comments received from sources
            such as those received from respondents from past performance questionnaires or
            interviews that have not been finalized within a formal rating system. A best practice
            can be to discuss adverse past performance which caused a rating to be lowered to
            Satisfactory Confidence.</p>
        <p id="p__Toc307819182" outputclass="Normal"><b><i>Best Value</i></b><i> </i>is the expected
            outcome of an acquisition that, in the Government’s estimation, provides the greatest
            overall benefit in response to the requirement. </p>
        <p><b><i>Clarifications</i></b> are limited exchanges between the Government and Offerors
            that may occur when award without discussions is contemplated. </p>
        <p><b><i>Communications</i></b> are exchanges, between the Government and Offerors, after
            receipt of proposals, leading to establishment of the competitive range. </p>
        <p><b><i>Competitive Range</i></b> is the range of proposals that are most highly rated,
            unless the range is further reduced for efficiency. Discussions will be held only with
            Offerors in the competitive range. See FAR 15.306(c). </p>
        <p><b><i>Deficiency</i></b> is a material failure of a proposal to meet a Government
            requirement or a combination of significant weaknesses in a proposal that increases the
            risk of unsuccessful contract performance to an unacceptable level. See FAR 15.001. </p>
        <p outputclass="Normal"><b><i>Discussions</i></b><b><i> </i></b>are exchanges (i.e.,
            negotiations) in a competitive environment that are undertaken with the intent of
            allowing the offeror to revise its proposal. Discussions take place after establishment
            of the competitive range. See FAR 15.306(d).</p>
        <p><b><i>Due Diligence (Industry) </i></b><b><i>–</i></b><b><i> </i></b>The process followed
            by prospective contractors to fully understand the government requirement in order to
            submit a complete, responsive proposal to the government which will result in a
            successful acquisition. Methods may include such activities as conducting site visits,
            attending industry days, one-on-one sessions with the acquisition teams, pre-proposal
            conferences and responding to draft requests for proposals.</p>
        <p><b><i>Due Diligence (Government)</i></b>
            <b>–</b><b> </b>The process followed by the government acquisition team to ensure all
            prospective contractors are as informed of the government requirement and method of
            acquisition as possible in order to receive a reasonable number of competitive proposals
            from industry. Methods may include such activities as providing for site visits,
            conducting industry days, one-on-one sessions with interested vendors, pre-proposal
            conferences and sending draft requests for proposals to industry.</p>
        <p><b><i>Evaluation Findings</i></b><b> </b>are the evaluator’s<b> </b>written
            observations/judgments regarding the individual merits of the proposal against the RFP
            requirements.</p>
        <p outputclass="Normal"><b><i>Evaluation</i></b><b><i> </i></b><b><i>Notice </i></b>is the
            PCO’s written notification to the offeror for purposes of clarifications,
            communications, or discussions.</p>
        <p outputclass="Normal"><b><i>Excesses</i></b><b><i> </i></b>are elements of the proposal
            that have exceeded mandatory minimums (in ways that are not integral to the design)
            whose removal and corresponding price decrease may make an Offeror’s proposal more
            competitive. See FAR 15.306(d)(4).</p>
        <p><b><i>Formal Source S</i></b><b><i>election</i></b> means the source selection process
            used where someone other than the PCO is the SSA, normally for high dollar value or
            complex acquisitions. </p>
        <p><b><i>Large Business</i></b><b> </b>means businesses determined other than Small Business
            based upon industry size standards and/or North American Industry Classification System
            [NAICs]. Includes: Large businesses, State and Local Government and non-profit
            companies. May also include: public utilities, educational institutions, and
            foreign-owned firms.</p>
        <p><b><i>Lowest Price </i></b><b><i>Technically Acceptable</i></b> is a process used in
            competitive negotiated contracting where the best value is expected to result from
            selection of the technically acceptable proposal with the lowest evaluated price. See
            FAR 15.101-2. </p>
        <p><b><i>Minor or Clerical Error</i></b><b> </b>is a minor informality or irregularity that
            is merely a matter of form and not of substance or a clerical error apparent on its face
            in the proposal. Includes: obvious misplacement of decimal points, incorrect discounts,
            reversal of prices, and misdesignation of units.</p>
        <p outputclass="Normal"><b><i>Objective (or objective (maximum)</i></b> as used in this
            document) is the value of an attribute that is applicable when a higher level of
            performance delivers significant increased operational effect, or decreased operational
            risk, if it can be delivered below the affordability cap. The objective value is the
            desired operational goal that is achievable but may be at a higher risk in cost,
            schedule, and technology. (For use in VATEP)</p>
        <p><b><i>Performance Confidence Assessment</i></b> is an evaluation of the likelihood (or
            Government’s confidence) that the offeror will successfully perform the RFP’s
            requirements; the evaluation is based past performance information. </p>
        <p><b><i>Probable Cost </i></b>is the government’s best estimate of the costs that a
            contractor will incur in performing a cost-reimbursement contract (FAR 15.404-1(d)
            (2)(i)). The probable cost must be ascertained by making a cost realism analysis during
            the evaluation of each proposal and must be used in making the source selection decision
            for best value.</p>
        <p><b><i>Program Manager or Requiring Activity</i></b> is the entity responsible for
            providing contract requirements documents within the RFP that communicate those
            requirements to the offeror. </p>
        <p><b><i>Rating</i></b> is the adjective/color descriptor assigned by the evaluators to the
            non-Cost/Price Factors and corresponding Subfactors. It represents their conclusions as
            to the quality of the proposal, supported by narrative write-ups identifying the
            associated findings (strengths, weaknesses, deficiencies, risks, and uncertainties). </p>
        <p><b><i>Recency</i></b>, as it pertains to past performance information, is a measure of
            the time that has elapsed since the past performance reference occurred. Recency is
            generally expressed as a time period during which past performance references are
            considered relevant. </p>
        <p><b><i>Relevancy</i></b>, as it pertains to past performance information, is a measure of
            the extent of similarity between the service/support effort, complexity, dollar value,
            contract type, and subcontract/teaming or other comparable attributes of past
            performance examples and the source RFP requirements; and a measure of the likelihood
            that the past performance is an indicator of future performance. </p>
        <p><b><i>Requirements Documents</i></b> are all aspects of the RFP that convey the needs of
            the Government to offerors, including the Statement of Objectives, SOW, PWS, technical
            requirement documents, and system requirement documents. </p>
        <p><b><i>Risk</i></b>, as it pertains to source selection, is the potential for unsuccessful
            contract performance. The consideration of risk assesses the degree to which an
            offeror’s proposed approach to achieving the technical factor or subfactor may involve
            risk of disruption of schedule, increased cost or degradation of performance, the need
            for increased Government oversight, and the likelihood of unsuccessful contract
            performance. (For firm-fixed-price contracts, the reference to increased cost may be
            removed from the risk definition.) </p>
        <p><b><i>Sample Task </i></b>is a hypothetical task that is given to Offerors during source
            selection to evaluate their understanding of the work and their ability to perform the
            work. It must be a reasonable representative of the type of work that will be required.
            Some rates used to price the task order must be binding on the contractor for the sample
            to be valid. (Incorporation of binding rates also applies to any live/real task
            order.)</p>
        <p><b><i>Significant Strength</i></b><b> </b>is an aspect of an Offeror’s proposal that has
            appreciable merit or appreciably exceeds specified performance or capability
            requirements in a way that will be appreciably advantageous to the Government during
            contract performance. </p>
        <p outputclass="Normal"><b><i>Significant</i></b><b><i> </i></b><b><i>Weakness</i></b><b><i> </i></b>in the proposal is a flaw that
            appreciably increases the risk of unsuccessful contract performance. See FAR 15.001.</p>
        <p><b><i>Source Selection </i></b>is the process used in competitive, negotiated contracting
            to select the proposal that offers the best value to the Government. </p>
        <p outputclass="Normal"><b><i>Source Selection</i></b><b><i> </i></b><b><i>Advisory
                    </i></b><b><i>Council</i></b><b><i> </i></b><b><i> </i></b>is a group of senior
            Government personnel, appointed by the SSA, that provides counsel during the source
            selection process, prepares the comparative analysis of the SSEB's final evaluation
            results, and makes an award recommendation to the SSA.</p>
        <p><b><i>Source Selection Authority </i></b>is the official designated to make the source
            selection decision. </p>
        <p><b><i>Source Selection Decision Document </i></b>is the document that reflects the SSA's
            independent, integrated, comparative assessment and decision. </p>
        <p><b><i>Source Selection Evaluation Board </i></b>is a group of individuals representing
            the various functional disciplines relevant to the acquisition, and is responsible for
            evaluating proposals against the solicitation criteria. </p>
        <p outputclass="Normal"><b><i>Source Selection</i></b><b><i> </i></b><b><i>Information</i></b><b><i> </i></b>is information prepared for use by
            an agency for the purpose of evaluating a bid or proposal to enter into an agency
            procurement contract, if that information has not been previously made available to the
            public or disclosed publicly. See FAR 2.101 for a listing of source selection
            information.</p>
        <p><b><i>Source Selection Plan </i></b><b><i> </i></b> is a plan that describes how the
            source selection will be organized, how proposals will be evaluated and analyzed, and
            how source(s) will be selected. </p>
        <p><b><i>Source </i></b><b><i>S</i></b><b><i>election
                    </i></b><b><i>P</i></b><b><i>rocedures</i></b> are designed to: (1) maximize
            competition; (2) minimize the complexity of the solicitation, evaluation and selection
            process; (3) ensure impartial and comprehensive evaluation of proposals; and (4) ensure
            selection of the source whose proposal is the most advantageous and realistic and whose
            performance is expected best meet the government’s stated requirements.</p>
        <p><b><i>Source Selection Team </i></b>is a team that is tailored to the unique acquisition,
            tasked with carrying out a source selection. Composition of the team generally consists
            of the SSA, PCO (if different from the SSA), SSAC, SSEB, Advisors, Cost/Price Experts,
            Legal Counsel, Small Business Specialists, and other subject-matter experts. </p>
        <p><b><i>Standard of Proof </i></b>is the evidence or standard by which the Government
            (evaluator) determines whether an Offeror has complied with the Government’s stated
            requirement. </p>
        <p><b><i>Strength</i></b> is an aspect of an Offeror’s proposal that has merit or exceeds
            specified performance or capability requirements in a way that will be advantageous to
            the Government during contract performance.</p>
        <p><b><i>Subjective Tradeoff </i></b>is a source selection process used when it may be in
            the best interest of the Government to consider award to other than the lowest priced
            Offeror or other than the highest technically rated Offeror but it is not possible to
            place a quantifiable value on proposed performance or capabilities above threshold
            (minimum) requirements (see DOD Source Selection Procedures paragraph 1.3.1.3.</p>
        <p><b><i>Terms and Conditions Concerns </i></b>are issues related to any of the contract
            provisions in the RFP.</p>
        <p outputclass="Normal"><b><i>Threshold (or Threshold (minimum)) as used in this document) </i></b>is the
            minimum acceptable value of an attribute that is considered achievable within the
            available cost, schedule, and technology at low-to-moderate risk. Performance below the
            threshold value is not operationally effective or suitable or may not provide an
            improvement over current capabilities. (See also “mandatory minimums” in FAR
            15.306(d)(4).)</p>
        <p outputclass="Normal"><b><i>Tradeoff Process </i></b>is the competitive negotiation
            process where the government evaluates both cost/price and non-cost/price factors and
            awards the contract to the offeror proposing the combination of factors which offer the
            best value to the government. The process is appropriate when it is in the government’s
            best interest to consider award to other than the lowest priced offeror or the highest
            technically rated offeror. </p>
        <p><b><i>Uncertainty </i></b>is any aspect of a non-cost/price factor proposal for which the
            intent of the offer is unclear (e.g. more than one way to interpret the offer or
            inconsistencies in the proposal indicating that there may have been an error, omission,
            or mistake).</p>
        <p outputclass="Normal"><b><i>Value Adjusted Total Evaluated Price </i></b>is a tradeoff source selection process where the
            Offeror’s total proposed price may be adjusted based on the “value” placed on better
            performance as identified in the RFP. The SSA must then determine if a higher rated
            technical offer is “worth” the additional cost to the Government.</p>
        <p><b><i>Weakness</i></b> is a flaw in the proposal that increases the risk of unsuccessful
            contract performance. See FAR 15.001</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
