<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_16-3">
  <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">16-3.</ph> Approved Exceptions </title>
  <conbody>
      <p> </p>
      <p outputclass="List1">a. Purchases of explosives, toxins, and ammunition are authorized only after the Joint Program Executive Office Armaments and Ammunition (JPEO-A&amp;A) has authorized an exception. This specifically includes small arms, explosives, weapon parts, accessories, and ammunition. Each exception is approved on a case-by-case basis by JPEO A&amp;A and ODASA(P) CPM.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">b. Waiver requests may be submitted to JPEO A&amp;A via use of the JPEO A&amp;A Waiver Request Checklist and the following documents to the Level 4 A/OPC: </p>
      <p>1) Justification for Waiver and Mission Requirements stated in a signed memorandum on the requesting organization’s official letterhead</p>
      <p>2) Internal Controls (safe storage)</p>
      <p>3) Ammunition Storage License</p>
      <p>4) Accountability Processes</p>
      <p>5) Funding Type (NAF or PAA only)</p>
      <p>6) Legal review</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p outputclass="List1">c. The Level 4 A/OPC will submit the completed request packet to the Level 3 A/OPC for submission to JPEO-A&amp;A and the Army GPC CPM for review/approval.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">d. JPEO-A&amp;A provides a recommendation on whether or not the request justifies inclusion in the AFARS Appendix EE list of approved exceptions to policy to the CPM or returns the request with a non-concurrence to the requesting organization. If approved, by the ODASA(P), the activity will be authorized the exception to policy. The approved exception will be added to the requester’s local GPC Operating Procedures. </p>
      <p outputclass="List1">e. A dedicated GPC is mandatory for such approved exceptions to policy. The dedicated GPC will be identified by a third line embossing as “AMMO,” providing transparent identification for ammunition purchases via GPC for Army reporting purposes.</p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
