<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-CC-404"
         xml:lang="en-US"
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title outputclass="Heading 4" class="- topic/title "> 
      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">CC-404</ph> Types of Procurement Management Reviews.</title>
   <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) The purpose of the CAP is to strengthen internal controls by identifying and resolving organizational weaknesses and deficiencies. The CAP contains data such a s a CAP Summary, CAP with Deficiency Score, Findings, Root Cause, along with the ability to track CAP status updates.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p "> (b) A CAP is required when the contracting activity receives an Overall PMR Risk of Non-Compliance Rating of Medium (Yellow) or High (Red). Depending on the frequency of occurrence, the contracting activity shall take corrective action for findings and deficiencies related to Severity 2 and 3 questions.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p ">CAPs shall be created and implemented by the contracting activity. At a minimum -</p>
      <p class="- topic/p "> The contracting activity reviewed shall submit a CAP within 30 business days of Final PMR Report receipt.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p "> The reviewed activity must complete corrective actions – if any – within the agreed timeframe, inform the PMR Team Lead of corrective actions taken, and request closure of the CAP.</p>
      <p class="- topic/p "> For additional information on the CAP process, please reference the ODASA(P) PMR Guidebook, section 5, and the CAP Informational Guide, located on the <xref href="https://armyeitaas.sharepoint-mil.us/sites/ASA-ALT-PAM-ProcProc/SitePages/PMR.aspx"
               format="html"
               scope="external"
               class="- topic/xref ">PMR SharePoint</xref>.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
