<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" id="AFARS_APPENDIX-AA_operation_maintenance_training_and_installation"><title> <ph props="autonumber">Operation</ph>, Maintenance, Training, and Installation</title><conbody><p>&lt;This section includes many possible options that may be applicable to a particular requirement. Contracting officers should scale this section to include only the portions relevant to the requirement and solicitation.&gt;</p><p> <u>Section L</u> </p><p>The offeror’s proposal shall identify design-upgrade approach that will enable the Government to preserve supportability, maintainability, and operational availability. The proposal shall address the operations, training, and maintenance activities of the end item to include roles and responsibilities, system engineering activities, associated IP, data deliverables, and associated license rights required for Government to address repair and maintenance activities, technical manuals, training (both operator and maintainer), field level support, and provisioning.</p><p>The offeror shall propose the procedures, guidance, and instructions for the operation, handling, testing, utilization, familiarization, and functional use of the end item. Operation includes, but is not limited to all data to identify, catalog, stock, source, acquire, procure, replenish, package, handle, store, and transport.</p><p>The offeror shall identify data that will be delivered to the Government to conduct testing, troubleshooting, and/or repair activities. The offeror shall identify the tools required to execute field and depot level maintenance of LRUs and SRUs. The offeror’s proposal shall identify considerations for these sustainment activities to include roles and responsibilities allocated to offeror and government organizations. The offeror shall identify those test equipment support requirements as applicable to the various stages of maintenance levels. The proposal shall identify associated documentation that will empower the Government’s ability to verify the functions of the products developed under this contract.</p><p>The offeror shall address the following, which is not limited to preliminary timeline considerations, upgrade approach, technical training, and the identification of additional services and/or considerations necessary to establish an organic government and/or third-party capability.</p><p>The offeror shall identify the level of repair and associated field and depot level analysis for &lt;Program Title&gt; solution. The proposal shall also identify required replacement intervals and tools required.</p><p>The offeror shall propose all scheduled and unscheduled field-level maintenance, depot-level maintenance, and repair capabilities to maintain, inspect, test, service, adjust, troubleshoot, analyze, remove and/or replace, repair, install, disassemble, reassemble, and overhaul to maintain in, or restore to, a serviceable condition.</p><p>The offeror’s proposal shall identify considerations and required plans for &lt;Program Title&gt; operator and maintainer training. Offeror shall provide a list of training materials (i.e., manuals, training plans, etc.) required equipment, and power requirements necessary for training.</p><p>The offeror’s proposal shall indicate how it facilitates future competitive procurement of &lt;Program Title&gt; using technical data, software, and software documentation deliverables and associated license rights under this procurement.</p><p>If the offeror’s proposal <b>does not</b> facilitate competitive procurement of &lt;Program Title&gt; the offeror’s proposal shall identify all data deliverables needed to facilitate the competitive procurement; regardless of whether the offeror proposes only a sub-set of the data rights needed for competitive procurement. Additional, the proposal shall identify any IP, data deliverables or licensing rights restrictions that will hinder future competition.</p><p>If the proposal <b>does</b> facilitate competitive procurement of &lt;Program Title&gt;, the offeror shall explain how its proposed competitive procurement strategy facilitates competitive procurement in instances where the Government will only be provided with “Limited Rights”, “Restricted Rights”, or other license restrictions to data deliverables related to &lt;Program Title&gt; sustainment (including license restrictions in commercial license agreements and third-party license agreements).</p><p>The offeror shall identify the proposed Diminishing Manufacturing Source and Material Shortage (DMSMS) and Obsolescence approach and respective responsibilities of the offeror and Government.</p><p> <u>Section M</u> </p><p>The Government will evaluate the proposal for a design-upgrade approach that will enable the Government to preserve supportability, maintainability, and operational availability. The proposal addresses the operations, training, and maintenance activities of the end item to include roles and responsibilities, system engineering activities, associated IP, data deliverables, and associated license rights required for Government to address repair and maintenance activities, technical manuals, training (both operator and maintainer), field level support, and provisioning.</p><p>The Government will evaluated the proposal to ensure it addresses procedures, guidance, and instructions for the operation, handling, testing, utilization, familiarization, and functional use of the end item.</p></conbody></concept>