<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "/home/ec2-user/ditatool/dita-ot-2.5.4/plugins/org.oasis-open.dita.v1_3/dtd/technicalContent/dtd/ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix_EE_topic_11">
   <title outputclass="Heading 2">
      <ph props="autonumber">1-8.</ph> Management of the GPC Program</title>
   <conbody>
      <p id="kudjip" outputclass="Normal">a. Responsibility for the establishment and operation of an agency’s GPC program is delegated to the agency’s Senior Contracting Official (SCO). The SCO, or in activities that do not have a SCO, the Chief of the Contracting Office (CCO), designates a Level 3 A/OPC and an alternate(s) who once appointed is dedicated to the GPC Program within their agency/organization.</p>
      <p id="gQmCGf" outputclass="Normal">b. The SCO or CCO forwards the Level 3 A/OPC Appointment Letter to the Level 2 A/OPC using the template found at Appendix F. The letter delegates responsibility for managing the agency GPC program and details responsibilities, training and certification requirements, and grade level preferences for the Level 3 A/OPC role. The Level 2 A/OPC reviews the nomination and ensures the Level 3 A/OPC meets all requirements of the position. Once approved, the Level 2 A/OPC provides written endorsement and coordinates Level 3 A/OPC appointment with the servicing bank. The Level 2 A/OPC is the final approval authority for agency Level 3 A/OPC appointments.</p>
      <p id="VuEREK" outputclass="Normal">c. SCOs must ensure adequate resources are dedicated to the GPC program within their agency/organization to ensure successful management of the program. Adequate GPC resources refer to an agency’s efficient and effective deployment of assets (such as number of personnel, training, funding, facilities, knowledge and skills, etc.) when and where needed to meet agency requirements in compliance with the laws and regulations governing the GPC Program. Adequate resources must be deployed to reasonably ensure that programs achieve their intended results; resources are used consistent with agency mission; programs and resources are protected from fraud, waste, and mismanagement; laws and regulations are followed; and reliable and timely information is obtained, maintained, reported and used for decision making.</p>
      <p id="IsgsgH" outputclass="Normal">d. Individuals meeting the following criteria may be appointed as Level 3 or 4 A/OPCs for the GPC Program; GPC knowledge, training, and experience, basic contracting knowledge and/or acquisition training. The Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act (DAWIA) requires the Department of Defense to establish education and training standards, requirements, and courses for the civilian and military workforce. The DAWIA certification requirements are located at <xref format="aspx" href="https://dap.dau.mil/career/pur/Pages/Certification.aspx" scope="external">
            <u>DAU Certification Requirements</u>
         </xref>. DAWIA contracting or purchasing certification includes a training, education, and experience requirement. The Army requires Level 3 and Level 4 A/OPCs to be DAWIA Level II certified in contracting. A/OPCs that are not DAWIA Level 2 certified in contracting must either complete the DAWIA Level 2 contracting training requirement within 24 months or achieve DAWIA Level 2 certification in purchasing within 24 months of being assigned to the Level 3 or Level 4 A/OPC position. This requirement is effective immediately upon appointment of all A/OPCs. Although the Level 3 A/OPC position typically warrants a minimum equivalent grade of GS-13 or higher, the grade depends on the responsibilities, complexity, and volume of the program. In addition to certification requirements, Level 3 and 4 A/OPCs are required to have completed the training requirements detailed in Section 2-2.</p>
      <p id="fLrMqp" outputclass="Normal">e. The SCO management responsibility authority for the GPC Program is further delegated to the CCO. The CCO must ensure adequate resources are dedicated to the GPC program within their installation/activity to allow effective administration of the program. The CCO coordinates with the local personnel office(s) to ensure procedures are established requiring individuals involved in the GPC Program to clear through the Level 4 A/OPC when they out-process from the installation. The Level 4 A/OPC is appointed at a sufficient grade/rank to exercise their authority depending on the responsibilities, complexity, and volume of the program. Only individuals who meet the criteria in paragraphs 1-8(d) may be appointed as A/OPCs for the GPC Program.</p>
      <p id="pFVgKL" outputclass="Normal">a. The Level 3 and 4 A/OPCs must have the following knowledge, skills, and abilities:</p>
      <p id="DtJgbA" outputclass="Normal">(1) understanding of the relevant policies, procedures, and commercial contracting practices;</p>
      <p id="GhLlde" outputclass="Normal">(2) understanding of the relevant procurement laws and regulations;</p>
      <p id="fDbtiJ" outputclass="Normal">(3) understanding of what constitutes and authorized purchase transaction;</p>
      <p id="RFcDNN" outputclass="Normal">(4) understanding of procurement methods and standards;</p>
      <p id="rMtets" outputclass="Normal">(5) ability to communicate, organize, and manage effectively;</p>
      <p id="keAVwy" outputclass="Normal">(6) basic analytical and computer skills;</p>
      <p id="mOiTUx" outputclass="Normal">(7) ability to summarize data, draft reports and write effectively using proper grammar, punctuation, and tone;</p>
      <p id="LtcKTw" outputclass="Normal">(8) ability to analyze, research, and provide concise recommendations to the chain of command on required actions to anticipate, prevent, or correct problems in business processes that are supported by the GPC.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
