<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-AA_Chapter-5_Appendix-E_chapter_5">
        <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">CHAPTER 5</ph> DEFINITIONS</title>
        <conbody>
          <p>1. <b>Associated License Rights (formerly Data
Rights).</b> Government's nonexclusive
license <b>rights</b> in two categories of
valuable intellectual property,
“technical <b>data</b>” and
“computer software” delivered by contractors under
civilian agency and DoD contracts.</p>
          <p>2. <b>Covered Government Support .</b> A contractor
under a contract, the primary purpose of which is to furnish
independent and impartial advice or technical assistance directly
to the Government in support of the Government’s management
and oversight of a program or effort (rather than to directly
furnish an end item or service to accomplish a program or effort),
which contractor—</p>
          <p id="g_1">a. is not affiliated with the prime or a
first-tier subcontractor, program or effort, or with any direct
competitor of such prime contractor or any tier subcontractor in
furnishing end item or services of the type developed or produced
on the program or effort; and</p>
          <p id="g_2">b. executes a contract with the Government
agreeing to and acknowledging—</p>
          <p id="g_2_A">i. that proprietary or nonpublic <xref format="html"
               href="https://www.law.cornell.edu/definitions/uscode.php?width=840&amp;height=800&amp;iframe=true&amp;def_id=10-USC-1577405811-156097974&amp;term_occur=999&amp;term_src="
               scope="external">technical
data</xref> furnished will be accessed and used only for the
purposes stated in that contract;</p>
          <p id="g_2_B">ii. that the <xref format="html"
               href="https://www.law.cornell.edu/definitions/uscode.php?width=840&amp;height=800&amp;iframe=true&amp;def_id=10-USC-91711947-156155685&amp;term_occur=999&amp;term_src=title:10:subtitle:A:part:IV:chapter:137:section:2320"
               scope="external">covered
Government support</xref> will enter into a non-disclosure agreement
with the contractor regarding rights to the<xref format="html"
               href="https://www.law.cornell.edu/definitions/uscode.php?width=840&amp;height=800&amp;iframe=true&amp;def_id=10-USC-1577405811-156097974&amp;term_occur=999&amp;term_src="
               scope="external"> technical
data</xref>;</p>
          <p id="g_2_C">iii. that the <xref format="html"
               href="https://www.law.cornell.edu/definitions/uscode.php?width=840&amp;height=800&amp;iframe=true&amp;def_id=10-USC-91711947-156155685&amp;term_occur=999&amp;term_src=title:10:subtitle:A:part:IV:chapter:137:section:2320"
               scope="external">covered
Government support</xref> will take all reasonable steps to protect
the proprietary and nonpublic nature of the<xref format="html"
               href="https://www.law.cornell.edu/definitions/uscode.php?width=840&amp;height=800&amp;iframe=true&amp;def_id=10-USC-1577405811-156097974&amp;term_occur=999&amp;term_src="
               scope="external"> technical
data </xref>furnished to the <xref format="html"
               href="https://www.law.cornell.edu/definitions/uscode.php?width=840&amp;height=800&amp;iframe=true&amp;def_id=10-USC-91711947-156155685&amp;term_occur=999&amp;term_src=title:10:subtitle:A:part:IV:chapter:137:section:2320"
               scope="external">covered
Government support contractor</xref> program or effort for the period
of time in which the Government is restricted from disclosing the<xref format="html"
               href="https://www.law.cornell.edu/definitions/uscode.php?width=840&amp;height=800&amp;iframe=true&amp;def_id=10-USC-1577405811-156097974&amp;term_occur=999&amp;term_src="
               scope="external"> technical
data </xref>outside of the Government;</p>
          <p id="g_2_D">iv. that a breach of that contract by
the <xref format="html"
               href="https://www.law.cornell.edu/definitions/uscode.php?width=840&amp;height=800&amp;iframe=true&amp;def_id=10-USC-91711947-156155685&amp;term_occur=999&amp;term_src=title:10:subtitle:A:part:IV:chapter:137:section:2320"
               scope="external">covered
Government support</xref> with regard to a third-party’s
ownership or rights in such<xref format="html"
               href="https://www.law.cornell.edu/definitions/uscode.php?width=840&amp;height=800&amp;iframe=true&amp;def_id=10-USC-1577405811-156097974&amp;term_occur=999&amp;term_src="
               scope="external"> technical
data </xref>may subject the <xref format="html"
               href="https://www.law.cornell.edu/definitions/uscode.php?width=840&amp;height=800&amp;iframe=true&amp;def_id=10-USC-91711947-156155685&amp;term_occur=999&amp;term_src=title:10:subtitle:A:part:IV:chapter:137:section:2320"
               scope="external">covered
Government support contractor</xref>
          </p>
          <p id="g_2_D_i">1. to criminal, civil, administrative, and
contractual actions in law and equity for penalties, damages, and
other appropriate remedies by the United States; and</p>
          <p id="g_2_D_ii">2. to civil actions for damages and other
appropriate remedies by the or subcontractor tec<xref format="html"
               href="https://www.law.cornell.edu/definitions/uscode.php?width=840&amp;height=800&amp;iframe=true&amp;def_id=10-USC-1577405811-156097974&amp;term_occur=999&amp;term_src="
               scope="external">hnical
data</xref> is affected by the breach; and</p>
          <p id="g_2_E">3. that such <xref format="html"
               href="https://www.law.cornell.edu/definitions/uscode.php?width=840&amp;height=800&amp;iframe=true&amp;def_id=10-USC-1577405811-156097974&amp;term_occur=999&amp;term_src="
               scope="external">technical
data</xref> provided to the <xref format="html"
               href="https://www.law.cornell.edu/definitions/uscode.php?width=840&amp;height=800&amp;iframe=true&amp;def_id=10-USC-91711947-156155685&amp;term_occur=999&amp;term_src=title:10:subtitle:A:part:IV:chapter:137:section:2320"
               scope="external">covered
Government support</xref>  under the authority of this section
shall not be used by the <xref format="html"
               href="https://www.law.cornell.edu/definitions/uscode.php?width=840&amp;height=800&amp;iframe=true&amp;def_id=10-USC-91711947-156155685&amp;term_occur=999&amp;term_src=title:10:subtitle:A:part:IV:chapter:137:section:2320"
               scope="external">covered
Government support contractor</xref> against the third-party for
Government or non-Government contracts. (10 U.S. Code § 3775-
Definitions, paragraph (a))</p>
          <p>3. <b>Computer Software (CS).</b> Computer programs,
source code, source code listings, object code listings, design
details, algorithms, processes, flow charts, formulae, and related
material that would enable the software to be reproduced,
recreated, or recompiled. Computer software does not include
computer databases or computer software documentation. (DFARS
252.227-7014)</p>
          <p>4. <b>Computer Software Documentation.</b> Owner's
manuals, user's manuals, installation instructions, operating
instructions, and other similar items, regardless of storage
medium, that explain the capabilities of the computer software or
provide instructions for using the software. (DFARS
252.227-7014)</p>
          <p>5. <b>Copyright.</b> Rights in original works of
authorship, fixed in any tangible medium of expression. Works of
authorship include: literary works; musical works; dramatic works;
pantomimes and choreographic works; pictorial, graphic, and
sculptural works; motion pictures and other audiovisual works;
sound recordings; and architectural works. Under U.S. law,
registration is not necessary for copyright to exist. Computer
software can sometimes be protected by copyright, as a literary
work. Copyright does not cover names, ideas, procedures, processes,
systems, methods of operation, concepts, principles, or
discoveries. (Implementation Guidance for Army Directive 2018-26,
Enabling Modernization through Management of Intellectual
Property)</p>
          <p>6. <b>Depot-Level Maintenance and Repair.</b> Material
maintenance or repair requiring the overhaul, upgrading, or
rebuilding of parts, assemblies, or subassemblies, and the testing
and reclamation of equipment as necessary, regardless of the source
of funds for the maintenance or repair or the location at which the
maintenance or repair is performed.</p>
          <p>(a) The term includes: (1) all aspects of software maintenance
classified by the Department of Defense as of July 1, 1995, as
depot-level maintenance and repair, and (2) interim support or
contractor support (or any similar contractor support), intent that
such support is for the performance of services described in the
preceding sentence.</p>
          <p>(b) Exceptions. (1) The term does not include the procurement of
major modifications or upgrades of weapon systems that are designed
to improve program performance or the nuclear refueling or
defueling of an aircraft carrier and any concurrent complex
overhaul. A major upgrade program covered by this exception could
continue to be performed by private or public sector activities.
(2) The term also does not include the procurement of parts for
safety modifications. However, the term does include the
installation of parts for that purpose. (10 U.S.C. §
2460)</p>

          <p>7. <b>Detailed Manufacturing or Process Data
(DMPD).</b> Technical data that describe the steps, sequences,
and conditions of manufacturing, processing or assembly used by the
contractor to produce an item or component or to perform a process.
(DFARS Clause <ph id="BM252227"/>252.227-7013)</p>
          <p>8. <b>Form, Fit, and Function Data (FFF).</b>
Technical data that describes the required overall physical,
functional, and performance characteristics (along with the
qualification requirements, if applicable) of an item, component,
or process to the extent necessary to permit identification of
physically and functionally interchangeable items. (DFARS Clause
252.227-7013)</p>
          <p>9. <b>Intellectual Property (IP).</b> A product of the
human mind which is protected by law. It includes, but is not
limited to, patents, inventions, know-how, designs, copyrights,
works of authorship, trademarks, service marks, technical data,
trade secrets, computer software, unsolicited inventive proposals,
and technical know-how. The intangible rights in such property are
described as intellectual property rights. (AR 27-60 Intellectual
Property)</p>
          <p>10. <b>Intellectual Property (IP) Deliverables.</b>
Products or services (including information products and services)
that are required to be delivered or provided to the U.S.
Government by contract or other legal instrument and that include
or embody IP (e.g., technical data and computer software) (DoD
Instruction 5010.44, Intellectual Property (IP) Acquisition and
Licensing)</p>
          <p>11. <b>Intellectual Property (IP) Rights.</b> The
legal rights governing IP, including ownership as well as license
or other authorizations to engage in activities with IP (e.g.,
make, use, sell, import, reproduce, distribute, modify, prepare
derivative works, release, disclose, perform, or display IP). When
the IP involves access to classified information, DoD Directive
5535.02, DoD Instruction 2000.03, and Volume 2 of DoD Manual
5220.22 may apply. (DoD Instruction 5010.44, Intellectual Property
(IP) Acquisition and Licensing)</p>
          <p>12. <b>Modular Open Systems Approach (MOSA).</b>
          </p>
          <p>

            <b>Modular Open System Approach Requirement</b>. See
10 USC 4401 for further definitions. The term “<xref format="html"
               href="https://www.law.cornell.edu/definitions/uscode.php?width=840&amp;height=800&amp;iframe=true&amp;def_id=10-USC-1842492423-13828323&amp;term_occur=999&amp;term_src=title:10:subtitle:A:part:IV:chapter:144B:subchapter:I:section:2446a"
               scope="external">modular
open system approach</xref>” means, with respect to a <xref format="html"
               href="https://www.law.cornell.edu/definitions/uscode.php?width=840&amp;height=800&amp;iframe=true&amp;def_id=10-USC-141465302-13828329&amp;term_occur=999&amp;term_src=title:10:subtitle:A:part:IV:chapter:144B:subchapter:I:section:2446a"
               scope="external">major
defense acquisition program</xref>, an integrated business and
technical strategy that—</p>
          <p id="b_1_A">1. employs a modular design that uses <xref format="html"
               href="https://www.law.cornell.edu/definitions/uscode.php?width=840&amp;height=800&amp;iframe=true&amp;def_id=10-USC-768698383-13828326&amp;term_occur=999&amp;term_src=title:10:subtitle:A:part:IV:chapter:144B:subchapter:I:section:2446a"
               scope="external">modular
system interfaces</xref> between major systems, major system
components and modular systems;</p>
          <p id="b_1_B">2. is subjected to verification to
ensure that relevant modular system <xref format="html"
               href="https://www.law.cornell.edu/definitions/uscode.php?width=840&amp;height=800&amp;iframe=true&amp;def_id=10-USC-768698383-13828326&amp;term_occur=999&amp;term_src=title:10:subtitle:A:part:IV:chapter:144B:subchapter:I:section:2446a"
               scope="external">interfaces</xref>-</p>
          <p>a. comply with, if available and suitable, widely supported and
consensus-based standards; or</p>
          <p id="b_1_C">b. are delivered pursuant to the requirements
established in subsection (a)(2)(B) of section 804 of the William
M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2021, including the delivery of-</p>
          <p>i. software-defined interface syntax and properties,
specifically governing how values are validly passed and received
between major subsystems and components, in machine-readable
format;</p>
          <p>ii. a machine-readable definition of the relationship between
the delivered interface and existing common standards or interfaces
available in Department interface repositories; and</p>
          <p>iii. documentation with functional descriptions of
software-defined interfaces, conveying semantic meaning of
interface elements, such as the function of a given interface
field;</p>
          <p>3. uses a system architecture that allows severable <xref format="html"
               href="https://www.law.cornell.edu/definitions/uscode.php?width=840&amp;height=800&amp;iframe=true&amp;def_id=10-USC-1133832237-13828325&amp;term_occur=999&amp;term_src=title:10:subtitle:A:part:IV:chapter:144B:subchapter:I:section:2446a"
               scope="external">major
system components</xref> and modular systems at the appropriate
level to be incrementally added, removed, or replaced throughout
the life cycle of a<xref format="html"
               href="https://www.law.cornell.edu/definitions/uscode.php?width=840&amp;height=800&amp;iframe=true&amp;def_id=10-USC-497793757-13828324&amp;term_occur=999&amp;term_src=title:10:subtitle:A:part:IV:chapter:144B:subchapter:I:section:2446a"
               scope="external"> major
system platform </xref>to afford opportunities for enhanced
competition and innovation while yielding—</p>
          <p id="b_1_C_i">a. significant cost savings or
avoidance;</p>
          <p id="b_1_C_ii">b. schedule reduction;</p>
          <p id="b_1_C_iii">c. opportunities for technical
upgrades;</p>
          <p id="b_1_C_iv">d. increased interoperability, including
system of systems interoperability and mission integration; or</p>
          <p id="b_1_C_v">e. other benefits during the sustainment
phase of a <xref format="html"
               href="https://www.law.cornell.edu/definitions/uscode.php?width=840&amp;height=800&amp;iframe=true&amp;def_id=10-USC-133083788-13828330&amp;term_occur=999&amp;term_src=title:10:subtitle:A:part:IV:chapter:144B:subchapter:I:section:2446a"
               scope="external">major
weapon system</xref>; and</p>
          <p id="b_1_D">4. complies with the technical data rights set
forth in 10 USC 3771-3775</p>
          <p id="b_2"/>
          <p>13. <b>Operation Maintenance Installation Training (OMIT).
(There is no regulatory or statutory definition.) Recommend adding
to PWS.</b>
          </p>
          <p>OMIT is described in 10 USC 3771 as technical data that is
necessary for operation, maintenance, installation, and training
purposes, other than detailed manufacturing or process data. Data
needed for OMIT can include technical data and computer software
documentation pertaining to the system and associated equipment. It
can be data necessary for providing field and sustainment level
operators and maintainers the theory of operation; details on the
equipment/software operation (including test and inspection
procedures); details sufficient to affect maintenance (including
removal, repair, replacement and the proper lubricants, tools, test
equipment, etc. to be used in these operations); installation (for
installing items, components, parts, etc. on a platform, assembly,
component); and training (including instructors, operators and
maintainers (field and sustainment level), packaging/preservation
personnel, and logistics assistance representative.</p>
          <p>14. <b>Patent.</b> In the United States, a patent is
the grant of a property right by the United States Patent and
Trademark Office (USPTO) to anyone who invents or discovers any new
and useful process, machine, article of manufacture, or composition
of matter, or any new and useful improvement of one of those. The
right conferred by the patent grant is the right to exclude others
from making, using, offering for sale, or selling the invention in
the United States or “importing” the invention into the
United States. (Implementation Guidance for Army Directive 2018-26,
Enabling Modernization through Management of Intellectual
Property)</p>
          <p>15. <b>Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Data
Rights.</b> The Government’s rights during the SBIR data
protection period to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform,
display, or disclose technical data or computer software generated
under a SBIR award as follows:</p>
          <p>a. Limited rights in such SBIR technical data; and</p>
          <p>b. Restricted rights in such SBIR computer software.</p>
          <p>c. DFARS 252.227-7018 - Rights in Other Than Commercial
Technical Data and Computer Software—Small Business
Innovation Research (SBIR) Program</p>
          <p>1. <b>Specifically/specially negotiated license
rights.</b> The standard license rights granted to the
Government under the appropriate contract clause (for
commercial/non- commercial technical data and/or computer software)
may be modified by mutual agreement to provide such rights as the
parties consider appropriate but shall not provide the Government
lesser rights than are enumerated in the appropriate contract
clause (for commercial/non-commercial technical data and/or
computer software). Any rights so negotiated shall be identified in
a license agreement made part of this contract. (Implementation
Guidance for Army Directive 2018-26, Enabling Modernization through
Management of Intellectual Property)</p>
          <p>2. <b>Technical Data.</b> Recorded information,
regardless of the form or method of the recording, of a scientific
or technical nature (including computer software documentation).
The term does not include computer software or financial,
administrative, cost or pricing, or management information, or
information incidental to contract administration. (DFARS
252.227-7013)</p>
          <p>3. <b>Technical Data Package:</b> A technical
description of an item adequate for supporting an acquisition,
production, engineering, and logistics support. The description
defines the required design configuration or performance
requirements, and procedures required to ensure adequacy of item
performance. It consists of applicable technical data such as
models, engineering design data, associated lists, specifications,
standards, performance requirements, quality assurance provisions,
software documentation and packaging details.
(MIL-STD-31000B)</p>
          <p>4. <b>Trade Secret:</b> All forms and types of
financial, business, scientific, technical, economic, or
engineering information, including patterns, plans, compilations,
program devices, formulas, designs, prototypes, methods,
techniques, processes, procedures, programs, or codes, whether
tangible or intangible, and whether or how stored, compiled, or
memorialized physically, electronically, graphically,
photographically, or in writing if – (A) the owner thereof
has taken reasonable measures to keep such information secret; and
(B) the information derives independent economic value, actual or
potential, from not being generally known to, and not being readily
ascertainable through proper means by, another person who can
obtain economic value from the disclosure or use of the
information. (18 U.S.C. § 1839)</p>
          <p>
            <b>
              <i>Note:</i>
            </b>
            <i>This is not a wholly
inclusive list of definitions associated with IP, data
deliverables, and associated license rights. The full definitions
and other associated terms and definitions are located in
referenced IP documentation, Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR),
and Department of Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
(DFARS).</i>
          </p>
        </conbody>
      </concept>
