<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_APPENDIX-AA_c-9">
        <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">C-9</ph> Tips and Best Practices for Using LPTA</title>
        <conbody>
          <p>Below are some general tips and agreed-upon best practices to
guide application of LPTA techniques.</p>
          <table>
            <tgroup cols="1">
              <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
              <tbody>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <b>Tips and Best Practices for Using LPTA</b>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <b>Establishing Technical Factors For
Evaluation</b>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <p>When establishing technical factors for evaluation, each must
link to specific critical technical requirements in the
PWS/SOW/SOO.</p>
                    <p>Using a Technical Information Questionnaire (TIQ), which
includes the requirement (and PWS/SOW/SOO reference), the criteria,
and the “standard of proof” will make the job of the
evaluator far easier.</p>
                    <p>Also, providing a technical information questionnaire to the
Offeror to complete which includes the requirement (and PWS/SOW/SOO
reference), the criteria, and the “standard of proof”
required, will ensure consistency throughout the process. <i>See
Attachment C-1, Technical Information Questionnaire.</i>
                    </p>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <b>“Buy-In” and Performance Risk Can be
Mitigated</b>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <p>
                        <b>
                           <i>In LPTA –a very low price is often the result
of acceptability standards (criteria) that are set too low or are
ill-defined.</i>
                        </b>
                    </p>
                    <p>
                        <u>Rigorous Definition and Evaluation of “Technical
Acceptability” is key to success</u>. By
associating minimum standards with relative risks for execution of
each task, the overall performance risk can be mitigated or
decreased.</p>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <b>Source Selection Evaluation Training</b>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>Train the SSEB on the specific process of evaluating the
proposal against the <b>
                        <i>standard of proof</i>
                    </b>
relative to each evaluation criteria and documentation.</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <b>Brand Name or Equal RFPs</b>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>Ensure the salient characteristics are included in the
solicitation. If a firm is offering an equal product, the proposal
must demonstrate that the product conforms to the salient
characteristics listed in the solicitation. If the firm fails to
comply, its product is properly rejected as technically
unacceptable. <i>Nas/Corp-Telmah, Inc.,</i> B-405893, Jan.10,
2012, 2012 CPD ¶ 88 at 2.</entry>
                </row>
              </tbody>
            </tgroup>
          </table>
        </conbody>
      </concept>
