<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_11-6">
    <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">11-6.</ph> Semi-Annual A/OPC Reviews</title>
    <conbody>
        <p>A/OPCs and CPMs must complete semi-annual reviews within IOD to
            ensure adherence to internal controls, facilitate senior
            management’s awareness of their program’s health, and promote the
            interdisciplinary communication necessary for successful GPC program
            operations. Semi-annual reviews will be performed in IOD at the end
            of the March and September billing cycles. They are a consolidation
            of the previous six monthly reviews (20 March to 19 September and 20
            September to 19 March each year).</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. <b>A/OPC Semi-Annual Review</b>. Level 4 A/OPCs must complete this
            review once all six prior monthly reviews have been completed. The
            A/OPC reviews the internal controls summary and inputs requested
            data for all applicable agents.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>OA/OPC Semi-Annual Review</b>. Level 3 A/OPCs must complete
            this review once all Level 4 A/OPCs assigned to them have completed
            their semi-annual reviews. The Level 3 A/OPC reviews the internal
            controls summary for their program, concurs with the findings,
            determinations, and any corrective actions planned or taken, and
            affirms that they have briefed results to the Head of the Activity
            (HA).</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>CPM Semi-Annual Review</b>. CPMs (Level 2 A/OPCs) must complete
            this review once all Level 3 A/OPCs assigned to them have completed
            their semi-annual reviews.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>Semi-Annual Head of the Activity Briefing and Report</b>.
            A/OPCs and CPMs are required to perform the following actions:</p>
        <p>1) Brief semi-annual review results to their HA and inform the HA of
            program strengths and concerns. Conduct the briefing before
            completing their semi-annual review in IOD.</p>
        <p>2) Generate the Semi-Annual HA Review Report in IOD and obtain the
            HA’s signature on this report.</p>
        <p>3) Provide a scanned version of the signed report and other review
            documents (as applicable) to the A/OPC at the next level above them
            in the hierarchy.</p>
        <p>4) Certify completion by submitting the semi-annual review in
            IOD.</p>
        <p>5) Retain final signed documents.</p>
        <p id="Toc101947109">Table 11-3: Timeframe for IOD Monthly and
            Semi-annual Reviews</p>
        <table>
            <tgroup cols="2">
                <colspec colnum="1" colwidth="1*" colname="col1"/>
                <colspec colnum="2" colwidth="1*" colname="col2"/>
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry namest="col1" nameend="col2"> 
                     <b>Monthly Review Completion
                            Timeframe</b> 
                  </entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <b>Role</b> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <b>Days after Cycle End Date</b> 
                  </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>A/OPC (Level 4)</entry>
                        <entry>30</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>O/AOPC (Level 3)</entry>
                        <entry>40</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>CPM (Level 2)</entry>
                        <entry>55</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry namest="col1" nameend="col2"> 
                     <b>Semi-annual Review Completion
                            Timeframe</b> 
                  </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry> 
                     <b>Role</b> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <b>Completion Date</b> 
                  </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>A/OPC (Level 4)</entry>
                        <entry>1 June / 1 December</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>O/AOPC (Level 3)</entry>
                        <entry>30 June / 31 December</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>CPM (Level 2)</entry>
                        <entry>15 July / 15 January</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. <b>IOD Reports</b>. A/OPCs can run various reports based upon
            their role in IOD. These reports assist the A/OPC in identifying GPC
            program trends, strengths and weaknesses, and will be monitored and
            used in conjunction with conducting GPC annual surveillance.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
