<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_13-4">
    <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">13-4.</ph> Army GPC PMR Process</title>
    <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. The Department of the Army, through the ODASA(P), will establish,
            execute, and provide oversight of a tiered GPC PMR program reviewing
            each contracting activity every three years in order to achieve the
            following:</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. Assess, analyze, and communicate the health of Army contracting to
            senior Army leadership.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. Ensure management oversight and control of contracting related
            issues.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. Ensure compliance with Federal, Defense, and Army acquisition
            regulations and policies.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. Provide best practices for the Army to enhance the procurement
            process.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>Purpose and Objectives of PMRs</b>.</p>
        <p>1) Foster good stewardship of resources.</p>
        <p>2) Improve processes.</p>
        <p>3) Evaluate and strengthen internal controls.</p>
        <p>4) Assess and reduce risk.</p>
        <p>5) Ensure that agencies establish and maintain internal controls to
            provide reasonable assurance the goals and objectives of the
            purchase card program are being met, and safeguards against
            fraudulent, improper, and abusive purchases are adequate.</p>
        <p>6) Assess program results.</p>
        <p>7) Communicate results so systemic problems can be identified and
            addressed.</p>
        <p>8) Implement Corrective Action Plans.</p>
        <p>9) Improve the performance and accountability of the GPC program.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. HCAs or SCOs will conduct GPC PMRs on contracting activities, to
            include subordinate contracting offices, regardless of the level, at
            least once every 36 months and provide the schedule of reviews no
            later than 31 August of the preceding fiscal year to the ODASA(P).
            ODASA(P) may grant, in writing, an extension to four years on a
            one-time basis when circumstances are justified. Additionally, the
            ODASA(P) may require, in writing, more frequent reviews of
            contracting activities as deemed necessary.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>Preparation for GPC PMRs</b>. Reviewers should notify the
            activity being reviewed 30 days before planned GPC PMR visits. The
            activity will provide the following in advance: metrics, bank
            reports and IOD data mining reports, completed GPC toolkit,
            specified statistics, copies of previous reviews/corrective action
            plans, procurement authority, and training materials. Additionally,
            the activity may request additional areas of emphasis and assistance
            during the GPC PMR.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. <b>Results of Procurement Management Reviews</b>.</p>
        <p>1) Reports of GPC PMR results will contain a risk assessment,
            analysis of issues, commendations, observations, findings, and
            recommendations as appropriate. GPC PMR report findings must be
            specific and include sufficient information to enable root cause
            analysis. GPC PMR recommendations must be based on supported
            findings and be actionable.</p>
        <p>2) Contracting activities at all levels will perform timely GPC PMRs.
            Untimely reporting erodes the effectiveness of the review.</p>
        <p>3) Reviewers will submit the initial PMR report to the reviewed
            activity within 30 business days after the outbrief.</p>
        <p>4) The GPC contracting activity reviewed will submit a Corrective
            Action Plan (CAP) within 30 business days of report receipt.</p>
        <p>5) The responsible review official must review and approve the CAP
            and prepare a Final PMR report within 30 business days of CAP
            receipt.</p>
        <p>6) The reviewed activity must complete corrective actions - if any -
            within the agreed timeframe, inform the GPC PMR Team Lead of
            corrective actions taken, and request closure of the CAP.</p>
        <p> 
         <b>f. Annual Summary Health Report.</b> 
      </p>
        <p>1) HCAs will provide to the ODASA(P), an Annual Summary Health Report
            for their organization to include copies of all GPC PMR reports and
            associated analyses of subordinate contracting offices GPC reviews
            no later than 31 October each year.</p>
        <p>2) The ODASA(P) will provide an Annual Summary Health Report to
            DASA(P) that presents a holistic assessment of Army GPC contracting
            no later than 31 January each year.</p>
        <p> 
         <b>h. GPC Review Key Areas.</b> 
      </p>
        <p>1) Delegation of contracting authority</p>
        <p>2) Training requirements for program coordinators, approving
            officials and cardholders</p>
        <p>3) Setting of reasonable single purchase and monthly limits and
            blocking of MCCs</p>
        <p>4) Annual reviews to evaluate the number of CHs and BOs, CHs limits
            and transactions</p>
        <p>5) Uses of the GPC</p>
        <p>6) Independent Receipt and Acceptance</p>
        <p>7) Reconciling accounts and certification of transactions</p>
        <p>8) Span of control for BOs and A/OPCs</p>
        <p>9) Criteria for establishing accounts</p>
        <p>10) Convenience checks, annual review and 1099 Reporting</p>
        <p>11) Delinquency and Prompt Pay Interest</p>
        <p>12) Maximizing Refunds</p>
        <p>13) Criteria for deactivation/cancellation/termination of cards</p>
        <p>14) Documentation/Retention (e.g., uploading transaction
            documentation in the bank’s EAS)</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
