<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_11-11">
    <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">11-11.</ph> Violation and Disciplinary Categories</title>
    <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. <b>Identifying the Violation</b>. DoD’s <xref href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/policy/policyvault/Final_GPC_Disciplinary_Category_Definitions_Guidance_Jan_27_2020.pdf"
               format="html"
               scope="external">GPC Disciplinary Category Definitions
            Guidance</xref> is a helpful resource when identifying the type of
            violation in situations of card misuse and abuse. See Table 11-4
            below.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. A/OPCs should be alert to the following indicators of possible
            fraud, waste, or abuse:</p>
        <p>1) Repetitive buys from the same merchant</p>
        <p>2) Lack of documentation for a purchase</p>
        <p>3) Failure to safeguard cards and account numbers</p>
        <p>4) CH or BO authorizing the use of their cards by others</p>
        <p>5) Inadequate oversight by BOs and agencies</p>
        <p>6) Payments made for items not received</p>
        <p>7) Split purchases to avoid spending limitations</p>
        <p>8) Lack of accounting for items requiring accountability</p>
        <p>9) Payment delinquencies incurring interest penalties</p>
        <p>10) Approval of a CH’s statement of account by someone other than the
            CH or BO</p>
        <p>11) Unauthorized purchases</p>
        <p>12) CHs returning merchandise for cash or store credit vs. having
            credits issued back to the GPC</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>Taking Corrective Action</b>. When an A/OPC discovers a
            violation of GPC policies, the A/OPC must take corrective action.
            The course of action will vary depending on the intentionality and
            severity of the infraction. A/OPCs should take one or more of the
            following corrective actions:</p>
        <p>1) Document the violation in the purchase file and/or CH or BO’s
            file.</p>
        <p>2) Require involved parties to attend training.</p>
        <p>3) Inform the involved parties’ supervisor or commander.</p>
        <p>4) Suspend CH or BO account.</p>
        <p>5) Terminate CH or BO appointment and account.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>Continual or Severe Violations</b>. Continual violation of GPC
            procedures by a CH or BO will result in termination of GPC
            privileges. A/OPCs will document the violation and action taken in
            their files for that particular CH/BO. A/OPCs will refer evidence of
            deliberate abuse to the CH and/or BO’s supervisor, Commander, or SCO
            for appropriate action in accordance with the Uniform Code of
            Military Justice or civilian disciplinary rules. A/OPC will refer
            evidence of internal fraud or other criminal activity to the
            Commander or SCO.  
      </p>
        <p id="Toc118789467">Table 11-4: Disciplinary Categories</p>
        <table>
            <tgroup cols="5">
                <colspec colnum="1" colwidth="0.7*" colname="col1"/>
                <colspec colnum="2" colwidth="0.6*" colname="col2"/>
                <colspec colnum="3" colwidth="0.7*" colname="col3"/>
                <colspec colnum="4" colwidth="1.5*" colname="col4"/>
                <colspec colnum="5" colwidth="1.6*" colname="col5"/>
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry> <b>Category</b> </entry>
                        <entry> <b>Reportable</b> </entry>
                        <entry> <b>Classification</b> </entry>
                        <entry> <b>Definition</b> </entry>
                        <entry> <b>Examples</b> </entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Abuse</entry>
                        <entry>Yes</entry>
                        <entry>Intentional</entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>Intentional use of the Government- issued
                            charge card in violation of applicable regulations.
                            Evidence of intentionality will be inferred from
                            repeat offenses of the same violation, following
                            administrative and/or disciplinary action taken for
                            this violation.</p> 
                     <p>Applicable regulations are:
                            FAR, DFARS, Service/Agency Supplements, and
                            Component GPC policies/procedures.</p> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry>Examples include, but are not limited to,
                            intentionally failing to purchase from mandatory
                            sources, exceeding the applicable MPT, purchasing
                            items such as a day planner costing $300 rather than
                            one costing $45, or splitting requirements to avoid
                            card thresholds.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Internal Fraud</entry>
                        <entry>Yes</entry>
                        <entry>Malicious Intent</entry>
                        <entry>Any felonious act of corruption or attempt to
                            cheat the Government or corrupt the Government’s
                            agents by Charge Card Program officials. Use of the
                            charge card to transact business that is not
                            sanctioned, not authorized, not in one’s official
                            Government capacity, not for the purpose for which
                            the card was issued, not as part of official
                            Government business.</entry>
                        <entry>Examples include, but are not limited to, a CH
                            intentionally purchasing power tools for personal
                            use, paying for repairs of privately owned
                            equipment, purchasing items or extra quantity of
                            items for resale or to give away to
                            relatives.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Misuse</entry>
                        <entry>No</entry>
                        <entry>Unintentional</entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>Unintentional use of a GPC in violation of
                            applicable regulations. These actions are the result
                            of ignorance and/or carelessness, lacking
                            intent.</p> 
                     <p>Applicable regulations are: FAR,
                            DFARS, Service/Agency Supplements, and Component GPC
                            policies/procedures.</p> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry>Examples include, but are not limited to,
                            unintentionally purchasing excessive quantities of
                            an item with limited shelf life, violating a
                            specific-use policy such as an agency that requires
                            headquarters to buy all furniture, failing to
                            certify statements on time, costing the Government
                            maximum rebates and incurrence of prompt payment
                            interest.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Delinquency</entry>
                        <entry>Yes</entry>
                        <entry>N/A</entry>
                        <entry>An undisputed charge card account balance that is
                            unpaid for more than 61 days past the statement
                            date.</entry>
                        <entry>N/A</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Administrative Discrepancy</entry>
                        <entry>No</entry>
                        <entry>Unintentional</entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>Actions that violate operational
                            policies/procedures but do not violate federal law
                            or regulation.</p> 
                     <p>Supplies/services acquired
                            fulfill a valid Government need at a fair and
                            reasonable price at no additional cost to the
                            Government but required policy/procedures were not
                            followed.</p> 
                  </entry>
                        <entry> 
                     <p>Examples include, but are not limited to
                            incomplete forms and documentation, failure to
                            maintain required documents for the required time
                            period.</p> 
                     <p>Administrative discrepancies require
                            agency/internal corrective action and are not
                            reportable to OMB unless they are persistent,
                            pervasive, or willful in nature, in which case they
                            are reportable as abuse, fraud, or misuse.</p>
                        </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>External Fraud</entry>
                        <entry>No</entry>
                        <entry>Malicious Intent</entry>
                        <entry>Any felonious act of corruption or attempt to
                            cheat the Government or corrupt the Government’s
                            agents by someone other than Charge Card Program
                            officials.</entry>
                        <entry>Examples include but are not limited to a
                            merchant’s intentional charges for services not
                            provided or the unauthorized use by a third party of
                            a CH’s compromised or stolen account.</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. Any misuse of the GPC is subject to criminal, civil, Uniform Code
            of Military Justice, administrative, and disciplinary actions as
            appropriate. Offenses and penalties for misuse of Government Charge
            Cards by civilian employees is outlined in Table 3-1 Item 17 of AR
            690-752 titled “Civilian Personnel Disciplinary and Adverse
            Actions.” See below for details. The Table of Offenses and Penalties
            guidance below is intended for use as a guide for selecting an
            appropriate penalty for infractions committed by civilian employees
            as it may not effectively address all situations. Table 11-5 does
            not substitute for independent supervisory judgment and does not
            dictate penalties. A supervisor may choose the severity of action
            ranging from no penalty, informal disciplinary actions, to the
            maximum penalty of removal.</p>
        <p id="Toc118789468">Table 11-5: Offenses and Penalties Guidance</p>
        <table>
            <tgroup cols="4">
                <colspec colnum="1" colwidth="1.7*" colname="col1"/>
                <colspec colnum="2" colwidth="0.6*" colname="col2"/>
                <colspec colnum="3" colwidth="0.8*" colname="col3"/>
                <colspec colnum="4" colwidth="0.8*" colname="col4"/>
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Offense for Misuse of Government Charge
                            Card</entry>
                        <entry>First Offense</entry>
                        <entry>Second Offense</entry>
                        <entry>Third Offense</entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Misuse of Government Travel Charge Card or
                            Purchase Charge Card (for example, use for
                            unauthorized personal expenses, failure to pay
                            charge card bill in a timely manner, failure to
                            properly safeguard the card or failure to use card
                            for required expenses arising from official travel.
                            Use of the Travel Charge Card at establishments or
                            for purposes that are inconsistent with the official
                            business of DoD, the Army, or applicable
                            regulations).</entry>
                        <entry>Written reprimand to removal</entry>
                        <entry>5-day suspension to removal</entry>
                        <entry>10-day suspension to removal</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Unauthorized use, failure to appropriately
                            control or safeguard the use of a Government
                            Purchase Card as a card holder or approving official
                            responsible for use or oversight of the purchase
                            card.</entry>
                        <entry>Written reprimand to removal</entry>
                        <entry>14-day suspension to removal</entry>
                        <entry>Removal</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
    </conbody>
</concept>
