<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_5-6">
    <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">5-6.</ph> Card Suspension Policy</title>
    <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. Level 3 and 4 A/OPCs have the authority to suspend BO and CH
            accounts due to non-compliance with GPC policies and procedures.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>Automatic Suspensions</b>. Requests for suspension exemptions
            for BO accounts with operational emergencies may be granted on a
            case-by-case basis. Exemption requests must be submitted in writing
            from the Level 4 A/OPC, through the Level 3, to the Level 2 point of
            contact. In accordance with DoD business practices, U.S. Bank will
            automatically suspend BO accounts under the following
            conditions:</p>
        <p>1) BO’s account goes over 60 days past due (90 days after the billing
            date). The managing account and all card accounts under it are
            suspended until the delinquent payment has posted.</p>
        <p>2) BO’s account goes over 180 days past due (210 days after the
            billing date). All managing accounts assigned under the Level 4
            agent are suspended until delinquent payment has posted. The
            delinquent managing account is permanently closed (T9).</p>
        <p>3) BO’s account has more than 20 open card and/or checking accounts.
            The managing account is suspended unless a waiver has been approved
            by the Army Level 2 A/OPC.</p>
        <p>4) Before reopening a closed account due to a delinquent payment, the
            Level 3 and/or 4 A/OPC will document that U.S. Bank received full
            payment. Only the Army Level 2 may reopen suspended accounts prior
            to payment being received by U.S. Bank. Accounts will be closed
            permanently if more than two suspensions occur within a 12-month
            period. Only the Army Level 2 A/OPC may approve waivers to this
            policy.</p>
        <p id="Toc101859974"/>
    </conbody>
</concept>
