<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-AA_e-1_4">
          <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">E-1.4</ph> Source Selection Team Roles and
Responsibilities</title>
          <conbody>
            <p>
              <b>
                <u>Key Components of the Source Selection Team
(SST)</u>
              </b>
            </p>
            <p>
              <b>The Procuring Contracting Officer (PCO).</b>
            </p>
            <p>Early in the acquisition process, the PCO will work with program
personnel to ensure the acquisition strategy includes identifying,
acquiring, licensing, and enforcing the U.S. Government’s
rights to IP, data deliverables, and associated rights necessary to
support operation, maintenance, installation, training (OMIT);
modernization; and sustainment of a system or service throughout
the acquisition lifecycle.</p>
            <p>Work with the Program Manager (PM) to: 1) clearly define the
overall requirement; 2) determine what IP, data deliverables, and
associated license rights are necessary to achieve lifecycle goals;
and 3) include in the solicitation/contract.</p>
            <p>Negotiate for IP, data deliverables, and associated license
rights early in the acquisition lifecycle and/or when competition
exists in order to achieve a more affordable cost/price for the
Government.</p>
            <p>Provide business advice regarding IP strategy to PMs and Product
Support Managers, as appropriate.</p>
            <p>Assist in crafting the evaluation criteria.</p>
            <p>
              <b>Legal Counsel.</b>
            </p>
            <p>Consult cognizant legal offices (IP Attorney and/or Patent
Attorney, if available) for detailed advice on IP, data
deliverables, and associated license rights. Include IP Attorney or
Patent Attorney if available, as an additional legal advisor to the
source selection team.</p>
            <p>
              <b>Program Manager (PM) / Requiring Activity (RA).</b>
            </p>
            <p>Establish an Integrated Product Team (IPT) including subject
matter experts (SMEs) from a variety of disciplines, including
early coordination with PCOs and an IP or patent attorney.</p>
            <p>In conjunction with Materiel Developers (MATDEVs), prepare an IP
Strategy as a standalone document, or wholly contained within the
Acquisition Strategy or Simplified Acquisition Management Plan
(SAMP), which is required for all program types covered by DoDI
5010.44, Intellectual Property Acquisition and Licensing, starting
at inception of a program. Although a team effort, the PM is
ultimately responsible for preparing all comprehensive requirement
documentation, subject to approval by the cognizant Milestone
Decision Authority or other provisions within the Adaptive
Acquisition Framework (AAF) (e.g., Urgent Capability Acquisition,
Middle Tier of Acquisition, Major Capability Acquisition, etc.).
The development and continuous updating of an effective and robust
IP strategy will require active participation of SMEs from a wide
variety of disciplines, including but not limited to, engineering,
logistics, contracting, cost, and accounting, legal, etc. In
addition, Implementation Guidance for Army Directive 2018-26,
Enabling Modernization through Management of Intellectual Property,
17 December 2020, Appendix C provides a sample negotiated
license.</p>
            <p>Ensure program personnel engaged in all stages of the
acquisition life cycle have relevant knowledge of the rights and
obligations of the Government regarding IP matters, including IP
law and regulations.</p>
            <p>Identify early in the acquisition process the intellectual
property, data deliverables, and associated license rights needed
in all phases of a defense business system or weapons system
lifecycle.</p>
            <p>For identified license rights, identify whether the Government:
has already received these rights under another agreement; would be
entitled to these license rights by operation of standard DFARS
clauses; or would need to negotiate a separate license agreement to
receive these license rights.</p>
            <p>Support the PCO in development of the negotiation objectives and
be accessible for participation in the negotiation process for
required IP, data deliverables, and associated license rights.</p>
            <p>Coordinate with Product Support Managers, logistics chief,
technology lead, or other project office personnel, as
appropriate.</p>
            <p>Assist in crafting evaluation criteria.</p>
          </conbody>
        </concept>
