<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_9-7">
   <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">9-7.</ph> Supplemental Procurement Guidance</title>
   <conbody>
      <p outputclass="List1">a. <b>Sustainable Procurement</b>. Sustainable procurement is the purchase of
environmentally preferable products and services in accordance with
federally-mandated "green" procurement preference programs. The goal is to
achieve 100% compliance with mandatory Federal affirmative procurement programs
in all acquisition transactions. This policy applies to all acquisitions from
major systems programs to individual unit supply and service requisitions. For
more information on sustainable procurement, see FAR 23 or specific sustainable
policies located at <xref href="https://www.denix.osd.mil/spp/guidance/index.html"
               format="html"
               scope="external">https://www.denix.osd.mil/spp/guidance/index.html</xref>.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>FedMall</b>. FedMall is a Government e-commerce acquisition platform
which may be used for procuring supplies beyond those listed in Section 8-1. CHs
who use FedMall are required to register for a FedMall account. To register, CHs
will need to know their Department of Defense Activity Address Code (DoDAAC) or
their Activity Address Code (AAC). If FedMall does not recognize the CH’s DoDAAC
or AAC, CHs should contact their A/OPC to request the contracting office’s
Procurement DoDAAC for registration. <xref href="https://www.dla.mil/Working-With-DLA/Applications/FedMall/"
               format="html"
               scope="external">FedMall</xref> is accessible through the CH’s PIEE account via
the FedMall icon.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>General Services Administration (GSA) Programs</b>. GSA maintains the
Federal Supply Schedule program, also known as the GSA Schedules Program or the
Multiple Award Schedule Program. GSA offers an online shopping service called <xref href="https://www.gsaadvantage.gov/" format="html" scope="external">GSA Advantage!</xref> through which CHs may place orders
against Schedules. CHs may also use GSA Advantage! to place orders through <xref href="https://www.gsaglobalsupply.gsa.gov/"
               format="html"
               scope="external">GSA’s Global Supply System</xref>, a GSA wholesale supply
source, formerly known as "GSA Stock" or the "Customer Supply Center."</p>
      <p>1) GSA Advantage! enables CHs to search specific information (e.g., national
stock number, part number, common name), review delivery options, place orders
directly with Schedule contractors, and pay for orders using the GPC.</p>
      <p>2) CHs may place orders up to the MPT with any FSS contractor that can meet
the agency’s needs. Although not required to solicit from a specific number of
schedule contractors, ordering activities should attempt to distribute orders
among contractors.</p>
      <p>3) Federal Strategic Sourcing Initiative (FSSI) agreements are accessible at <xref href="http://www.gsa.gov/fssi" format="html" scope="external">FSSI</xref>. Cardholders should consider FSSI before using
commercial sources.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">d. Specific guidance on the use of required sources and order of precedence
of sources is prescribed in FAR Part 8 and DFARS Part 208. In addition to
mandatory sources, CHs should strongly consider purchasing from small businesses
and small disadvantaged businesses whenever possible.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">e. <b>Commercial Sources</b>. Before purchasing from a commercial source, CHs
must review applicable mandatory sources (see Table 9-1) and non-mandatory
Government sources (e.g., FedMall and GSA). CHs should rotate commercial
sources. CHs may purchase from a commercial source if the requested supplies or
services are unavailable from the applicable mandatory source. Price is an
unacceptable reason to avoid a mandatory source. CHs may choose a commercial
source over a non-mandatory Government source, if the commercial quote is more
favorable due to minimum order quantity, delivery time, price, etc. When buying
from a commercial source, CHs should include a justification in the purchase
request form or file documentation explaining why they chose a non-Government
source.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
