<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_11-8">
   <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">11-8.</ph> Non-Cardholder Fraud</title>
   <conbody>
      <p outputclass="List1">a. Non-cardholder fraud involves the use of the card account or CH data by an
unauthorized person. Non-cardholder fraud is investigated by special units
within the servicing bank. Any information acquired relating to non-cardholder
fraud should be reported. The risk of non-cardholder fraud is higher in certain
situations including the following:</p>
      <p>1) <b>Account/Card never received</b>. A new or replacement card has been
mailed to the account holder but was not received. This may be due to a
third-party interception. In this case, the account should be cancelled, and new
card issued.</p>
      <p>2) <b>Lost or Stolen Account/Card</b>. If the account holder reports the
account as lost or stolen, the account will be cancelled and new one issued.
Reporting the account as lost or stolen does not relieve the Federal Government
for payment for any transactions that were made by the account holder prior to
losing it. If transactions not made by the account holder appear on the
statement, the account holder has 90 days from the date of the transaction to
file a dispute. If it is not done within 90 days, they may forfeit their rights
to dispute.</p>
      <p>3) <b>Altered or counterfeit cards</b>. This occurs when third parties obtain
account information and used that information to make purchases with an altered
or counterfeit card. If the banks recognize a fraudulent pattern of use at the
time of authorization, the bank will validate the use of the account with the
account holder and/or suspend the account. If transactions not made by the
account holder appear on the statement, the account holder has 90 days from the
date of the transaction to file a dispute. If it is not done within 90 days,
they may forfeit their rights to dispute.</p>
      <p>4) <b>Account takeover/ Identity theft</b>. In this case, the account
holder’s identity has been compromised and a third party has requested a new
account by providing confidential information about the account holder. Any
account holder who believes that he or she may have been subject to identity
theft should contact the bank’s customer-service department. Once a
determination is made that an account has been compromised, investigation is the
responsibility of the bank. Unless a Government employee is determined to be
involved in the fraud, the agency generally does not participate in the
investigation. The account will be closed, and a replacement account opened.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>Non-Cardholder Fraud Methods</b>. Some of the different methods of
fraud include the following:</p>
      <p>1) <b>Counterfeit Accounts</b>. To make fake cards, criminals use the newest
technology to “skim” information contained on magnetic stripes of cards and also
to pass security features (such as holograms).</p>
      <p>2) <b>Lost or Stolen Accounts</b>. Physical cards are stolen from a
workplace, gym or unattended vehicle.</p>
      <p>3) <b>Card Not Present.</b> Internet fraud occurs whenever account
information is stolen and used to make online purchases. Merchant asks for the
CVC code (located on the back of the card) to help prevent this type of
fraud.</p>
      <p>4) <b>Phishing</b>. Phishing occurs whenever a CH receives a fake email
directing him or her to enter sensitive personal information on a phony website.
The false website enables the criminal to steal information from the account
holder.</p>
      <p>5) <b>Non-Receipt</b>. This type of fraud occurs whenever new or replacement
cards are mailed and then stolen while in transit.</p>
      <p>6) <b>Identity Theft</b>. A criminal applies for an account using another
person’s identity and information.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>Detecting Non-Cardholder Fraud</b>. One of the first signs that an
individual is a victim of fraud is at least one “mystery expense” showing up in
the monthly statement. To help detect fraud, cardholders should review their
statement by performing the following actions:</p>
      <p>1) Look for transactions you do not recall making.</p>
      <p>2) Check for unknown vendors.</p>
      <p>3) Search for account withdrawals you do not remember making.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>Avoiding Non-Cardholder Fraud</b>. Cardholders should use the following
practices to avoid fraud:</p>
      <p>1) Secure account number and information.</p>
      <p>2) Safeguard your personal identification number (PIN). Do not write it down;
memorize it. Do not share your PIN.</p>
      <p>3) Monitor your card during transactions. When the card is returned, check to
make sure it is yours.</p>
      <p>4) Immediately report lost or stolen accounts and/or any questionable
charges.</p>
      <p>5) Sign the back of a new card as soon as you receive it. If you do not
receive a replacement card before the expiration date of the older card, contact
the bank.</p>
      <p>6) Destroy unwanted or expired cards. Shred or secure monthly statements and
receipts.</p>
      <p>7) Electronically verify charges appearing on your monthly statement.</p>
      <p>8) Unless you initiated the purchase, never give your account information
over the telephone, through the mail, or on the internet.</p>
      <p>9) Consistently check your account for accuracy of personal and billing
information. Notify the bank if your personal information and/or address needs
updating.</p>
      <p>10) Never let a telemarketer or salesperson pressure you into agreeing to a
deal.</p>
      <p>11) Be aware of common scams and contact your A/OPC and the bank for unusual
situations.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">e. <b>If Non-Cardholder Fraud Occurs</b>. If fraud is detected on the
account, the CH must immediately report the incident to the following: BO, A/OPC
and servicing bank. The servicing bank will block and/or terminate the account.
If necessary, the bank will then issue a new card with a new account number.
Also, the bank will mail a “Statement of Fraud” letter to the cardholder, which
must be completed and returned promptly. Sometimes, unauthorized transactions
will appear on the billing statement, even though the account was reported lost
or stolen. Cardholders should report all unauthorized transactions by calling
the bank's customer service telephone number.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
