<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_1-3">
  <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">1-3.</ph> Information and Waiver Process</title>
  <conbody>
      <p outputclass="List1">a. Cardholders should direct GPC-related questions to their billing
      official. If the BO cannot resolve the issue, they should direct the issue
      to their Agency/Organization Program Coordinator (A/OPC) (Level 4 A/OPC).
      If the A/OPC cannot resolve an issue, the A/OPC should direct the question
      to the Oversight Agency/Organization Program Coordinator (OA/OPC) (Level 3
      A/OPC). If the OA/OPC cannot resolve the issue, the OA/OPC should consult
      the Component Program Manager (CPM) (Level 2 A/OPC) for guidance.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">b. All waivers, exceptions, and deviations to the guidance provided in
      AFARS Appendix EE must be in writing and routed to the ODASA(P) CPM for
      approval. Requests to waive, take exception to, or deviate from the rules,
      regulations, processes or procedures will be reviewed on a case-by-case
      basis. Requests for waivers should be submitted through the GPC chain of
      command. The CPM will retain copies of all approved waiver packages. In
      times of emergencies, a waiver approval may be obtained either through
      email or telephone call from the CPM with a follow up waiver request
      letter from the requesting command/activity. The letter must detail the
      reasons for the request and what adverse mission impact would occur if the
      waiver was not granted.</p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
