<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_5-2">
   <title> 
      
      <ph props="autonumber">5-2.</ph> Account Establishment</title>
   <conbody>
      <p outputclass="List1">a. GPCs are issued only as mission requirements dictate. Only DoD civilian
employees or members of the Armed Forces may be issued a GPC or be appointed a
BO. GPCs may not be issued to contractor personnel, except as provided in
paragraph 1-5d. Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps (JROTC) instructors,
Outside Continental United States (OCONUS) local national employees of the Army,
and host Government direct hires for OCONUS agencies/organizations whose
salaries are reimbursed by the Army or DoD tenant organizations, are not
considered DoD contractors, and may be designated as CHs and BOs. Traditional
National Guard members and State employees are prohibited from being appointed
as a CH, BO or A/OPC. The following types of purchases require a separate card
account delegated solely for that purpose:</p>
      <p>1) Contract Payments</p>
      <p>2) Official Representation Funds (ORF)</p>
      <p>3) Ammunition</p>
      <p>4) Gift Fund (for donated or proffered monies)</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>Card Account Limits</b>. Each card account has a single purchase limit
and a cycle or monthly limit. In most cases, the single purchase limit is the
micro-purchase threshold. The cycle limit is determined by the anticipated
spending needs of the cardholder.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>Managing Account Limits</b>. Each managing account has a cycle limit
and a credit limit. The cycle limit is the sum of the monthly limits of all
cardholders under the managing account. The credit limit is three times the
managing account’s cycle limit.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>Establishing Credit Limits</b>. The requiring activity establishes the
credit limit, based on the organization and the user’s anticipated spending
needs. The limits should be set at a level commensurate with historical
spending, anticipated requirements, and available funding. Limits should not be
based on unlikely contingencies. The A/OPC approves requested limits and inputs
the single purchase limit when creating the card account. The A/OPC then
communicates the credit limits to the RM, who inputs the CH’s credit limit and
the BO’s cycle and credit limit. RMs also establish the default and alternate
lines of accounting for the proper designation of appropriation.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">e. <b>Updating Credit Limits</b>. The single purchase, cycle, and credit
limits can be changed as necessary to meet operational needs. The A/OPC inputs
changes to the single purchase limit. The RM inputs cycle and credit limit
changes. RMs must notify the Level 4 A/OPC of any cycle or credit limit changes
to a BO or CH account.</p>
      <p id="Toc101163523"/>
   </conbody>
</concept>
