<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_15-6">
   <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">15-6.</ph> Wide Area Workflow</title>
   <conbody>
      <p outputclass="List1">a. Wide Area Workflow (WAWF) is a secure, web-based system for electronic
invoicing, receipt and acceptance. WAWF allows Government vendors to submit and
track invoices and receipt/acceptance documents over the Web and allows
Government personnel to process those invoices in a real-time, paperless
environment. WAWF is in accordance with the 2001 National Defense Authorization
Act (DFARS 252.232-7003/252.232.7003 Electronic Submission of Payment Requests -
January 2004), which requires claims for payment under a DoD contract to be
submitted in electronic form.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">b. DFARS Appendix F contains procedures and instructions for the use,
preparation, and distribution of the WAWF Receiving Report (RR) and commercial
shipping/packing lists used to document Government contract quality assurance.
Preparation instructions and training for the WAWF RR are available at <xref href="https://piee.eb.mil/" format="html" scope="external">PIEE</xref>. The instructions on preparing a WAWF RR are part
of the Vendor Training section.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">c. On March 3, 2008, DoD issued a final rule amending the DFARS to require
use of WAWF as the only acceptable electronic system for submitting requests for
payment (invoices and receiving reports) under DoD contracts.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">d. WAWF helps to mitigate interest penalty payments due to lost or misplaced
documents and highlights vendor-offered discounts so that the DoD benefits on
both fronts, in addition to streamlining the whole process from weeks to days or
minutes. Benefits include online access and full spectrum view of document
status, minimized re-keying and improving data accuracy, eliminating unmatched
disbursements, and making all documentation required for payment easily
accessible.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
