<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_3-15"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <title outputclass="Heading 2">
      <ph props="autonumber">3-15.</ph> Office Supply Blanket Purchase Agreements (BPAs)</title>
   <conbody>
      <p id="celqVc" outputclass="Normal">The Army must satisfy requirements for supplies and services from or through the sources and publications listed in the descending order of priority in FAR Part 8.002. The Office Supply BPAs fall under mandatory Federal supply schedules and must be utilized for office supply purchases unless an exception applies. The Office Supply BPAs can be accessed through the Army Corridor of the DOD EMALL site: <xref format="html"
               href="https://dod-emall.dla.mil/acct/"
               scope="external">
            <u>https://dod-emall.dla.mil/acct/</u>
         </xref>. The primary goals of the Office Supply BPAs are to ensure that office product purchases are in compliance with the statutory preferences afforded to products manufactured under the AbilityOne Program, capture economies of scale, and realize significant savings while providing opportunities for small business. Exceptions to the mandatory use of the BPAs and DOD EMALL are as follows:</p>
      <p id="IRQfTO" outputclass="List2">(1) This policy does not apply to purchases made Outside the Continental United States (OCONUS).</p>
      <p id="BGIlgn" outputclass="List2">(2) Purchases made directly from AbilityOne or from AbilityOne Base Supply Centers (BSCs). Cardholders may purchase office and cleaning supplies directly from AbilityOne Base Supply Centers and are exempt from using the Office Supply BPAs. These products are available at Base Supply Centers on military installations or in federal buildings.</p>
      <p id="FXqWNE" outputclass="List2">(3) Cardholders may purchase National Stock Number (NSN) items directly from AbilityOne BSCs and are exempt from using the Standard Army Retail Supply System (SARSS) or the Office Supply BPAs. When NSN products are not available from the BSCs, then cardholders should use the SARSS to purchase NSN Products.</p>
      <p id="PqbZKX" outputclass="List2">(4) <ph>Purchases made from wholesale supply sources such as stock programs of the General Services Administration</ph> (e.g. GSA Global Supply Center).</p>
      <p id="jYfRbG" outputclass="List2">(5) Cardholders may purchase an item from another source if an urgent need exists for an unplanned requirement needed for the same day. Poor acquisition planning and inadequate market research would not apply to this exception. Use of this exception requires valid documentation and retention in the purchase card file.</p>
      <p id="KLoIWt" outputclass="List2">(6) NAFI cardholders must comply with the required sources (see paragraph 3-5). When purchasing office supplies, NAFI GPC cardholders shall consider the AbilityOne Base Supply Centers or the Office Supply BPAs on the DOD EMALL Army Corridor as a practical choice. If it is not in the best interest of the NAFI to purchase through AbilityOne Base Supply Centers or the Office Supply BPAs, the cardholder may consider other required sources. The cardholder must adequately document the decision to not purchase from the AbilityOne Base Supply Centers or the Office Supply BPAs before an open-market source can be considered.</p>
      <p id="etRgli" outputclass="List2">(7) In the event the DoD EMALL is unavailable for more than 24 hours, cardholders may place orders with the Office Supply BPA vendor through another form of communication.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
