<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_5106.502"
         xml:lang="en-US"
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title outputclass="Heading 3" class="- topic/title ">
      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">5106.502</ph> Duties and responsibilities.</title>
   <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a)  Local advocates for competition are an extension of the CAFC office and assist the CAFC in the accomplishment of their responsibilities.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b)(2) Command advocates for competition must report the following information to the AAFC (see address at <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">AFARS </ph>
         <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
               href="5101.290.dita#AFARS_5101.290"
               base="AFARS-5101.290"
               xtrc="5101.290"
               class="- topic/xref ">5101.290 Routing documents and mailing addresses.</xref>(b)(2)(ii)(C)) no later than November 15 of each year, or as the AAFC specifies—</p>
      <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A)  The level of competition achieved against their goal for the fiscal year and, if applicable, reasons for not attaining the goal.</p>
      <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B)  Significant actions taken to increase competition or overcome barriers to competition, number of new sources identified as a result of market research, notable savings or performance or quality enhancements resulting from competition, and employees recognized for initiatives to enhance competition.</p>
      <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(C)  Mitigating factors affecting goal achievement.</p>
      <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(D)  A plan for competition in the coming fiscal year.</p>
      <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(E)  Any other activities and accomplishments.</p>
      <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(F)  Their competition goal for the coming fiscal year.</p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3)  Before seeking approval, CAFCs will coordinate their activity’s annual competition goals with the local small business specialist to balance socio-economic and competition goals with organizational interests.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
