<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="AFARS_5109.405"
         xml:lang="en-US"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <title outputclass="Heading 3">
      <ph props="autonumber">5109.405</ph> Effect of listing.</title>
   <conbody>
      <p outputclass="List1">(a)  The Army suspension and debarment official makes the “compelling reason” determination discussed at FAR 9.405(a), 9.405-1(b), 9.405-2, 9.406-1(c), and 9.407-1(d).  Contracting officers shall submit requests for an Army SDO determination to their senior contracting official (SCO) for review and endorsement.  If the SCO concurs, submit the request to the Army SDO, through the Chief, Procurement Fraud Branch (see 5101.290(b)(5)).  The Army SDO shall provide GSA with written notice of each approved determination.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1">(d)(1)  Contracting officers shall review the System for Award Management Exclusions prior to the solicitation of offers (except when performing this review for those solicitations posted to the Governmentwide point of entry where it will not be practicable), immediately prior to award of a new contract, prior to placement of a new purchase or task or delivery order, and prior to consent to subcontract.  Army contracting officers shall also review the System for Award Management Exclusions prior to exercise of an option or award of any modification that adds new work or extends the duration of the contract or the period of performance.  Contracting officers shall maintain a copy of the results of the reviews in the contract file.</p>
      <p outputclass="List2">(3)  See paragraph (a) in this section for procedures on obtaining the agency head determination.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
