<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_5142.1503"
         xml:lang="en-US"
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title outputclass="Heading 3" class="- topic/title ">
      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">5142.1503</ph> Procedures.</title>
   <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a)(1)(ii)(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">1</i>) Contracting officer’s representatives (CORs) will assist the <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">C</ph>ontracting officer with entering objective performance information in the Contractor Performance Assessment Reports System (CPARS) for each contract or order assigned. The <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">C</ph>ontracting officer may assign the COR the role of assessing official representative in CPARS.</p>
      <p outputclass="List6" class="- topic/p ">(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">2</i>) Include the <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">C</ph>ontracting officer in the assessment process prior to forwarding a report to the contractor for review.</p>
      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)  See <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">AFARS </ph>5142.1503-90(a) for a list of CPARS assessing officials (AOs) for contracts in different business sectors.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b)(2)(vi)  The AO shall consider the extent to which the contractor complied with Department of Defense policy for item unique identification; see DFARS 211.274-2 Policy for item unique identification, and AFARS 5111.274-2.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b)(4)  The AO shall support the rating assigned to an element or sub-element with narrative rationale.  Narratives shall clearly convey the rationale behind the rating to the contractor, as well as to a Government source selection official who is not familiar with the instant contract.  This is especially important for any rating above or below satisfactory.  The AO should support narratives with quantifiable or verifiable documentation.  While larger or more complex efforts warrant greater detail, narratives should be clear and concise.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(f)  See Army Regulation 715-30, as revised, for maintenance of past performance information that cannot be maintained in an unclassified database.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(h)(2) The <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">C</ph>ontracting officer shall process the CPARS initial registration consolidated format and a CPARS access request form <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">(or a single consolidated form that contains all the required information from both forms)</ph> and shall ensure the CPARS focal point receives both documents to ensure completion of registration within 30 calendar days from award of a contract. CPARS registration formats are located at <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">AFARS </ph>5153.303-9 Initial registration and 5153.303-10 Access request.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
