<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_APPENDIX-AA_warranty">
   <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">Warranty</ph>
   </title>
   <conbody>
      <p>
              <u>Section L</u>
            </p>
      <p>The offeror shall provide a copy of the proposed
warranty<b>.</b> &lt;Incorporate specific warranty
coverage required for respective acquisition. Include but not
limited to duration from date of manufacture, receipt at location,
etc. The associated cost/price shall be incorporated in the
Cost/Price Section/Volume (Priced CLIN).&gt; The warranty shall at
a minimum address the following elements by topic, and any
additional element(s) shall be included without changing the order
or numbering of the following elements: <b>&lt;</b>For
information regarding warranty, refer to the following resources:
DoD Warranty Guide 2020; FAR 46.703; DFARS 246.708; PGI 246.710-70;
and AR 700-13&gt;. </p>
      <p> Scope</p>
      <p> Definitions</p>
      <p> Individual Warranty Coverage</p>
      <p> Systemic/Performance Warranty Coverage</p>
      <p> Commercial Warranties</p>
      <p> Warranty Procedures/Remedies</p>
      <p> Other Rights and Remedies</p>
      <p> Warranty Administration</p>
      <p> Warranty Status Reporting</p>
      <p> Exclusions</p>
      <p> Presumption of Failure Defect</p>
      <p> Contractor Obligations</p>
      <p> No Evidence of Failure (NEOF)/Re-Test OK (RTOK)
Reductions</p>
      <p> Disputes</p>
      <p> The terms of the “Warranty” shall not cause
a conflict or otherwise diminish the Government’s rights in
any other clause, provision or term of the solicitation or any
resultant contract.</p>
      <p>
              <u>Section M</u>
            </p>
      <p>The Government will evaluate the proposal’s terms,
conditions, and coverage of the offeror’s proposed warranty
and any associated risks. &lt;may need to add
narrative applicable to respective requirement&gt;</p>
      <p>The offeror's proposed warranty will be evaluated for compliance
with solicitation requirements and the overall effectiveness in
providing adequate coverage. The evaluation will consider, but is
not limited to, the following elements:</p>
      <p>a. Scope: Clear and comprehensive coverage addressing the
intended use and potential risks.</p>
      <p>b. Definitions: Clearly defined terms and conditions to avoid
ambiguity.</p>
      <p>c. Individual Warranty Coverage: Specific coverage for
individual components or items.</p>
      <p>d. Systemic/Performance Warranty Coverage: Coverage for the
overall system or performance.</p>
      <p>e. Commercial Warranties: Compliance with commercial warranty
practices, if applicable.</p>
      <p>f. Warranty Procedures/Remedies: Clearly defined procedures for
reporting and addressing warranty issues.</p>
      <p>g. Other Rights and Remedies: Identification of any additional
rights and remedies provided beyond the warranty.</p>
      <p>h. Warranty Administration: Efficient and effective
administration of the warranty.</p>
      <p>i. Warranty Status Reporting: Timely and accurate reporting of
warranty status.</p>
      <p>j. Exclusions: Clearly outlined exclusions from warranty
coverage.</p>
      <p>k. Presumption of Failure Defect: Addressing the presumption of
failure defect and related procedures.</p>
      <p>l. Contractor Obligations: Clearly defined obligations of the
contractor regarding the warranty.</p>
      <p>m. No Evidence of Failure (NEOF)/Re-Test OK (RTOK) Reductions:
Procedures for NEOF/RTOK reductions, if applicable.</p>
      <p>n. Disputes: Clear and unambiguous procedures for handling
disputes related to the warranty.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
