<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_1-3">
      <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">1-3.</ph> Information and Waiver
Process</title>
      <conbody>
        <p id="_1-3._Information_and_Waiver_Process"/>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. Cardholders should direct GPC-related questions
to their Agency/Organization Program Coordinator (A/OPC) (Level 4
A/OPC). If the A/OPC cannot resolve an issue, the A/OPC should
direct the question to the Oversight Agency/Organization Program
Coordinator (OA/OPC) (Level 3 A/OPC). If the OA/OPC cannot resolve
the issue, the OA/OPC should consult the Component Program Manager
(CPM) (Level 2 A/OPC) for guidance. GPC personnel should coordinate
with their local legal counsel as necessary.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. All waivers, exceptions, and deviations to the
policies, procedures, and tools provided in AFARS Appendix EE must
be submitted, in writing, through the major command acquisition
chain of command to the ODASA(P) for approval. The CPM will retain
copies of all approved waiver packages. In times of emergencies, a
waiver approval may be obtained either through email or telephone
call from the CPM with a follow up waiver request letter from the
requesting command/activity. The letter must detail the reasons for
the request and what adverse mission impact would occur if the
waiver was not granted.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
