<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_6-6">
      <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">6-6.</ph>
Surcharges</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. Surcharges are fees that a retailer adds to the
cost of a purchase when a customer uses a credit card. As a result
of the settlement between a class of retailers and the brands on
January 27, 2013, merchants in the U.S. and U.S. Territories are
permitted to impose a surcharge on cardholders when a credit card
is used. Not all merchants impose a surcharge, and some states
(e.g., Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Maine, Massachusetts, New
York, Oklahoma, Texas, and Utah) prohibit merchant surcharges.
Cardholders who receive a surcharge in any of the above-mentioned
states should report the merchant to the proper State
authority.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. Cardholders are required to be notified in
advance if a merchant will impose a surcharge. Merchants must also
include the surcharge fee on all receipts. Surcharges are allowable
up to 4%. The limits vary by brand and by merchant discount rate.
See <xref format="html"
               href="https://smartpay.gsa.gov/policies-and-audits/smart-bulletins/017/"
               scope="external">
            <u>GSA
SmartPay Bulletin #017</u>.</xref> If a merchant is imposing a
surcharge, the CH may consider choosing another merchant that
offers the same or similar item(s) to avoid paying the
surcharge.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
