<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_9-9">
      <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">9-9.</ph> Sustainable Procurement</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. Cardholders are required to comply with Federal
Government environmental quality (i.e., “green”)
policies when acquiring supplies or services with the GPC. See
GSA’s <xref format="html"
               href="https://sftool.gov/greenprocurement"
               scope="external">
            <u>Green
Procurement Compilation</u>
          </xref> for the current lists of designated
products, product sources, and other relevant information. The DoD
Green Procurement Program:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Requires that sustainable supplies and services
be considered as the first choice for all procurements,</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Assigns responsibility to virtually every DoD
employee, including CHs, and</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Requires implementation at the organizational
level where initial purchasing requirements are defined.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and
USDA oversee the designated product programs, which designate
products that can be made with recycled or bio-based content and
place them on the mandatory list for Federal purchasers. Some
examples of mandatory items include the following:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Paper (including copy paper, computer paper,
envelopes, index cards, folders).</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Toner cartridges.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Office supplies (such as binders, clipboards,
and plastic desktop accessories).</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) Office recycling containers.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">5) Office trash cans.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">6) Toilet paper.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">7) Trash bags.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. <xref format="html"
               href="https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/410572p.pdf"
               scope="external">DoDI
4105.72, Section 1.2.b</xref> requires DoD to give preference to the
procurement of sustainable</p>
        <p>supplies and services using or supplying sustainable supplies
unless certain conditions exist. Cardholders are encouraged to
document if one or more of the following issues prevents purchase
of mandatory green supplies and services:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) The price of the supply/service is
unreasonable.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) The supply/service will not meet reasonable
performance standards.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Availability does not meet the requirement
timeframe.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) An exception is provided by statute.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. DAU course <xref format="html"
               href="https://icatalog.dau.edu/onlinecatalog/courses.aspx?crs_id=497"
               scope="external">CLG
046, DoD Sustainable Procurement Program</xref> provides training on a
comprehensive strategy for implementing environmentally preferred
practices while sustaining the overall mission.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
