<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_9-8">
      <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">9-8.</ph> Non-Mandatory Sources of Supply</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. In accordance with FAR 8.004, CHs should
consider use of non-mandatory sources such as FSS contracts/BPAs
(e.g., GSA Advantage); Governmentwide acquisition contracts;
multi-Component contracts (e.g., DoD FedMall contracts), and
commercial sources in the open market (including educational and
nonprofit institutions).</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. When purchasing against a BPA, CHs will ensure
the requirements of FAR 13.303-5 are met. When purchasing against
an indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity contract, CHs will
follow the ordering procedures as specified by the contracting
officer and FAR Part 16. When purchasing against a FSS contract,
CHs will follow the ordering procedures at FAR 8.405. CHs will
attempt to distribute FSS orders among contractors that can meet
the Army’s need in accordance with FAR 8.405-1(b).</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>Small Businesses</b>. In
accordance with FAR 19.203, the requirement to set aside
acquisitions for small businesses does not apply to purchases
valued at or below the MPT. However, in accordance with FAR 19.201,
CHs should consider small businesses and socioeconomic programs to
the maximum extent practicable when using the GPC for purchases at
or below the MPT.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>General Services Administration (GSA)
Programs.</b> GSA maintains the Federal Supply Schedule
program, also known as the GSA Schedules Program or the Multiple
Award Schedule Program. GSA offers an online shopping service
called GSA Advantage! through which CHs may place orders against
Schedules. CHs may also use GSA Advantage! to place orders through
GSA’s Global Supply System, a GSA wholesale supply source,
formerly known as "GSA Stock" or the "Customer Supply Center." GSA
Advantage! enables CHs to search specific information (e.g.,
national stock number, part number, common name), review delivery
options, place orders directly with Schedule contractors, and pay
for orders using the GPC. CHs may place orders up to the MPT with
any FSS contractor that can meet the agency’s needs. Although
not required to solicit from a specific number of schedule
contractors, ordering activities should attempt to distribute
orders among contractors. Federal Strategic Sourcing Initiative
(FSSI) agreements are accessible at FSSI. Cardholders must consider
GSA’s commercial platforms before using commercial
sources.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. <b>FedMall.</b> FedMall is a
Government e-commerce acquisition platform which may be used for
procuring supplies beyond those listed in Section 8-1. CHs who use
FedMall are required to register for a FedMall account. To
register, CHs will need to know their DoDAAC or their Activity
Address Code (AAC). If FedMall does not recognize the CH’s
DoDAAC or AAC, CHs should contact their A/OPC to request the
contracting office’s Procurement DoDAAC for registration.
FedMall is accessible through the CH’s PIEE account via the
FedMall icon.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">f. <b>Commercial Sources.</b> Before
buying from a commercial source, CHs must review applicable
mandatory sources and non-mandatory Government sources. See Tables
9-1 and 9-2. Cardholders should rotate commercial sources.
Cardholders may purchase from a commercial source if the requested
supplies or services are unavailable from the applicable mandatory
source provided they obtain the appropriate waivers.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
