<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_6-8">
      <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">6-8.</ph> Accountable Property</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. Personnel entrusted with the acquisition of
Government property are responsible for its proper custody,
safekeeping, and accountability in accordance with AR 710-4 (e.g.,
computer equipment, software, televisions, and large purchases).
ANG will follow property accountability procedures outlined in
Department of the Air Force Instruction (DAFI) 64-117. Accountable
property includes (1) Government property purchased or otherwise
obtained, having a unit acquisition cost of $5,000 or more; (2)
property of any value that is controlled or managed at the item
level; (3) leased items of any value; (4) assets that are sensitive
or classified; and (5) other items as specified by Army property
instructions. Examples include pilferable property subject to
theft, property hazardous to public health, small arms, property
designated as heritage assets, IT property, and
Government-furnished property (GFP).</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>GPC Accountable Property
Procedures</b>.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) CH will ensure that the Accountable Property
Officer (APO) reviews each purchase request form or the applicable
financial system prior to making the purchase.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) CH will provide purchase receipt to APO within
5 days of obtaining the receipt.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) When performing monitoring and oversight
reviews, APOs must assess whether CHs provided the GPC receipts to
the APO.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) When applicable, contract payment CHs must
review and comply with WAWF Invoicing, Receipt, Acceptance and
Property Transfer module in accordance with DFARS 232.7002,
232.7003, and 252.232-7003. See DoD Charge Card Guidebook Section
A.4.4.1.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>Exemptions</b>. Consumable items,
services, and SF 182 training payments do not require APO approval.
A consumable item is any item that loses its identity or is
consumed in use (e.g., office supplies, paper, and batteries).</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
