<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_16-5">
      <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">16-5.</ph> Explosives, Toxins, and Ammunition
Definitions</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. <b>Ammunition</b> (per 18 USC
921(a)(17)). The term means ammunition or cartridge cases, primers,
bullets, or propellant powder designed for use in any firearm.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>Non-Standard Ammunition
(NSA)</b>
          <i>.</i> Munitions that have not been safety tested
and type classified for U.S. Army use. Munitions and explosives
that are not managed by National Inventory Control Points, do not
have a national stock number (NSN) and cannot be procured or
requisitioned through the U.S. Army supply system.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>Arms</b>
          <i>.</i> DoD 5100.76-M
defines a weapon that will or is designed to expel a projectile or
flame by the action of the explosive, and the frame or receiver of
any such weapon. Arms is a specified subset of Dangerous Weapons
and all provisions for procuring, securing, and accounting for Arms
will also specifically apply to all manner of silencers, mufflers,
or suppressors.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>Arms Parts</b>
          <i>.</i> Arms
parts are a subset of “Arms” and defined as any item
required to effect a function of the firing cycle, but not an Arm
in and of itself.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. <b>Arms Accessories</b>
          <i>.</i>
Arms accessories are anything not defined/covered by the previous
definitions. Arms Accessories would include, by specific
delineation/enumeration, detachable magazines. This would
specifically include all manner of sights, optics, slings, bipods,
etc., that are available in the commercial marketplace.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">f. <b>Weapons.</b> The term
“weapon” means a weapon, device, instrument, material,
or substance, animate or inanimate, that is used for, or is readily
capable of, causing death or serious bodily injury, except that
such term does not include a pocket knife with a blade of less than
2½ inches in length. Weapons include but are not limited to
the following: Any knife having a switchblade, automatic opener, or
spring-loaded blade and/or disguise to resemble another item;
martial arts devices (e.g., blackjacks) or other devices (e.g.,
brass knuckles to amplify the effect of a bare-handed blow). Weapon
does not include single-edge (it is permissible to have a saw on
the edge opposite the blade) fixed or folding bladed knives or
“multi-tools” with a blade length not to exceed four
inches.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
