<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_11-6">
      <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">11-6.</ph> Semi-Annual A/OPC Reviews</title>
      <conbody>
        <p>a. A/OPCs and CPMs must complete semi-annual reviews within IOD
to ensure adherence to internal controls, facilitate senior
management’s awareness of their program’s health, and
promote the interdisciplinary communication necessary for
successful GPC program operations. Semi-annual reviews will be
performed in IOD after the end of the March and September billing
cycles. They are a consolidation of the previous six monthly
reviews (20 March to 19 September and 20 September to 19 March each
year).</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>A/OPC Semi-Annual Review</b>.
Level 4 A/OPCs must complete this review once all six prior monthly
reviews have been completed. The A/OPC reviews the internal
controls summary and inputs requested data for all applicable
agents.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>OA/OPC Semi-Annual Review</b>.
Level 3 A/OPCs must complete this review once all Level 4 A/OPCs
assigned to them have completed their semi-annual reviews. The
Level 3 A/OPC reviews the internal controls summary for their
program, concurs with the findings, determinations, and any
corrective actions planned or taken, and affirms that they have
briefed results to the HA.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>CPM Semi-Annual Review</b>. CPMs
(Level 2 A/OPCs) must complete this review once all Level 3 A/OPCs
assigned to them have completed their semi-annual reviews.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. <b>Semi-Annual Head of the Activity
Briefing and Report</b>. The SAHAR report provides HCAs and/or
SCOs with a high-level GPC monitoring and oversight summary across
their respective GPC program. A/OPCs at each level are required to
brief their HCA and/or SCO and obtain their signature on the
report, prior to submission to the ODASA(P). See <xref format="html"
               href="https://armyeitaas.sharepoint-mil.us/sites/ASA-ALT-PAM-ProcProc/SitePages/GPC-SAHAR-Report-Instructions.aspx"
               scope="external">Army
GPC SAHAR Instructions</xref>. Additional resources are available to
support the oversight process, including the <xref format="html"
               href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/asda/dpc/ce/pc/docs/smart-pay/SAHAR_Report_Guide.pdf"
               scope="external">
            <u>SAHAR
Report Field Descriptions Guide</u>
          </xref>, <xref format="html"
               href="https://extranet.acq.osd.mil/dpap/pdi/pc/docs/PA_InsightsOnDemand_ReportLineItemValidation.pdf"
               scope="external">IOD
A/OPC Monthly/SAHAR Report Line Item Validation Using Access
Online</xref>, and the <xref format="html"
               href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/asda/dpc/ce/pc/docs/smart-pay/Head-of-Activity-Review-Template-31August2020.pptx"
               scope="external">Semi-Annual
Head of Activity Review Template</xref>.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">f. In the event errors are identified, A/OPCs,
OA/OPCs, and CPMs should annotate corrections and explain the
error(s) encountered in the Notes field of the report (or
associated attachments) to help determine whether a system issue
requires resolution. The Notes field will also be used to address
issues and explain any exceptional circumstances (positive and
negative), so they are retained and available for future reference.
A/OPCs must attach an electronic copy of the signed report,
including all notes and associated documentation, in the Messages
tab of the Semi-Annual Checklists in IOD.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">g. A/OPCs and CPMs must perform the following
actions:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Generate the Semi-Annual HA Review Report in
IOD. Include the following in the Notes section for all agents
under review: summary assessment of findings and determinations,
span of control, purchasing and behavior patterns not identified by
IOD, appropriate attestations, and any SAHAR issues or data
errors.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Brief semi-annual review results to their
HCA/SCO and summarize program strengths and concerns. Conduct the
briefing before completing the semi-annual review in IOD.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Certify completion by submitting the
semi-annual review in IOD.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) Obtain the HCA/SCO’s signature on the
report.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">5) Upload the signed report in the Messages tab of
the Semi-Annual Review Checklist in IOD. Organizations with
multiple levels will upload the report in the first numbered
hierarchy.</p>
        <p id="Table_11-3_Timeframe_for_IOD_Monthly_an"/>
        <p id="Toc174981146">Table 11-5: Timeframe for IOD Monthly
and Semi-annual Reviews</p>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                  <entry nameend="col2" namest="col1">
                     <b>Monthly Review Completion Timeframe</b>
                  </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>
                     <b>Role</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <b>Days after Cycle End Date</b>
                  </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>A/OPC (Level 4)</entry>
                  <entry>30</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>OA/OPC (Level 3)</entry>
                  <entry>40</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>CPM (Level 2)</entry>
                  <entry>55</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry nameend="col2" namest="col1">
                     <b>Semi-annual Review Completion Timeframe</b>
                  </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>
                     <b>Role</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <b>Completion Date</b>
                  </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>A/OPC (Level 4)</entry>
                  <entry>15 May / 15 November</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>OA/OPC (Level 3)</entry>
                  <entry>15 June / 15 December</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>CPM (Level 2)</entry>
                  <entry>15 July / 15 January</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p outputclass="List1">h. <b>IOD Reports</b>. A/OPCs can run
various reports based upon their role in IOD. These reports assist
the A/OPC in identifying GPC program trends, strengths, and
weaknesses, and will be monitored and used in conjunction with
conducting GPC annual surveillance.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
