<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_APPENDIX-AA_c-4">
        <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">C-4</ph> What is Risk?</title>
        <conbody>
          <p>Whether using Tradeoff or LPTA, the focus should always be on
identifying the key discriminators based upon market research and
the assessment of risk. Risk, as it pertains to source selection,
is the potential for unsuccessful contract performance. Increased
risk comes with numerous possible complicating factors
including:</p>
          <table>
            <tgroup cols="2">
              <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
              <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
              <tbody>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <b>Disruption of Schedule</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <b>Funding/Budget Availability</b>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <b>Increased Cost or Degradation of
Performance</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <b>Contract Type – Pricing Arrangement</b>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <b>Need for Increased Government Oversight</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <b>Dependencies on Other Projects/Systems</b>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <b>The Likelihood of Unsuccessful Contract
Performance</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <b>Possible Effect on Other Simultaneous
Projects</b>
                  </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <b>Technical Feasibility</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                    <b>Operational Risk</b>
                  </entry>
                </row>
              </tbody>
            </tgroup>
          </table>
          <p>While it is impossible to eliminate all risk, the objective is
to reduce or mitigate risks by selecting the best value offeror
through a sound source selection evaluation process.</p>
          <p>
            <b>The Government’s risk is increased where the
criteria (standards) are set too low.</b> The source selection
team must work together to ensure the PWS/SOW/SOO/ Specification is
complete and reflects the government’s needs at the
<b>
              <i>
                <u>right</u>
              </i>
            </b> quality level.</p>
          <p>Identifying key discriminators that are linked to the critical
requirements where key risks lie is one of the most important steps
in the process of determining the right process to achieve best
value.</p>
          <table>
            <tgroup cols="1">
              <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
              <tbody>
                <row>
                  <entry>
                    <p>
                        <b>Key Risk Areas = Discriminators = Possible Evaluation
Criteria</b>
                    </p>
                    <p>
                        <b>Crystal Clear, Non-Debatable Evaluation
Criteria</b>
                    </p>
                    <p>
                        <b>+ Evaluation on Basis of Technical
Acceptability</b>
                    </p>
                    <p>
                        <b>+ <u>Objective Standard of Proof for Each
Criteria</u>
                        </b>
                    </p>
                    <p/>
                    <p>
                        <b>= Candidate for LPTA Source Selection
Process</b>
                    </p>
                  </entry>
                </row>
              </tbody>
            </tgroup>
          </table>
          <p>If the evaluation criteria cannot be objectively defined
strictly on the basis of acceptable/unacceptable, and a clear
<b>
              <i>“standard of proof”</i>
            </b> be
determined for each, the procurement is not a candidate for the
LPTA process.</p>
          <p>
            <b>NOTE:</b> If some, but not all, evaluation criteria
fit the LPTA requirements a <b>
              <i>combination
approach</i>
            </b> may be a consideration.</p>
          <p>
            <b>Caution –</b> If the customer/requiring
activity is concerned about improving performance, LPTA is
<u>not</u> an appropriate source selection approach.</p>
        </conbody>
      </concept>
