<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_12-1">
      <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">12-1.</ph> Emergency-Type Operations</title>
      <conbody>
        <p id="_12-1._Contingency_Contracting" outputclass="List1">a. DPCAP
adopted use of the group term Emergency-Type Operations (ETOs) in
contingency contracting and GPC policy. The ETOs currently included
in 41 USC 1903 are the following:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Contingency Operations as defined in FAR
2.101;</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Operations to facilitate the defense against or
recovery from cyber, nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological
attack against the United States as addressed in FAR 18.001;</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Operations in support of a request from the
Secretary of State or the Administrator of the United States Agency
for International Development to facilitate the provision of
international disaster assistance as addressed in FAR 18.001;
and</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) Operations to support response to an emergency
or major disaster as defined in Section 102 of the <xref format="html"
               href="https://www.fema.gov/disaster/stafford-act"
               scope="external">
            <u>Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act</u>
          </xref> (42
USC 5121, implemented in FAR Subpart 26.2).</p>
        <p>
The term ETO also includes humanitarian or peacekeeping operations
as defined in FAR 2.101. Currently, when supporting humanitarian or
peacekeeping operations, the MPT does not increase, regardless of
whether the humanitarian or peacekeeping operation is taking place
inside or outside the United States; and the SAT can increase to
$500,000 upon determination by the HCA that the respective supplies
or services directly support the humanitarian or peacekeeping
operation.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. FAR 18.2 addresses Emergency Acquisition
Flexibilities (EAFs). It is critical to verify whether increased
EAFs have been authorized for the particular ETO being supported.
If so, each HCA has the authority to authorize use of EAFs. The
primary EAF related to use of the GPC is the increased threshold
defined in paragraph (3) of the “Micro-Purchase
Threshold” definition at FAR 2.101. EAFs will be used only
for the duration of the ETO by those who have been authorized to
support the effort. Upon conclusion of the ETO authority, use of
EAFs will cease and purchasing limits will return to previous
levels. EAFs must be used solely for transactions that have a clear
and direct relationship with the ETO and that appropriate internal
controls are established and maintained to support and track use of
the increased flexibilities.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
