<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_17-1">
      <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">17-1.</ph> Program Metrics</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. A/OPCs have several reporting tools that enable
them to manage their purchase program effectively through the
bank’s EAS. Most electronic reports are updated within two to
three days after a transaction. However, some reports are only
updated at the end of the billing cycle. A/OPCs will have access
through the EAS to monitor account holder transactions at any time.
By searching by account holder name or account number, A/OPCs can
track account holder transactions (e.g., transactions, payments,
disputes), as well as view account holder monthly statements.
A/OPCs may also contact the bank’s customer service at any
time to request information on a specific account.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. Program metrics will be implemented in each
contracting office to provide the SCO, A/OPCs, and key Army
officials with an assessment of the risk environment and feedback
as to whether card programs are satisfying overall strategic goals.
All A/OPCs will utilize the reports identified in Table 17-1 and
17-2 to review performance metrics and identify any systemic
deficiencies requiring corrective action(s).</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. A/OPCs should maximize utilization of reports
available on the GPC Business IT systems web sites such as the IOD
and AXOL. The reports can assist with conducting periodic and
annual surveillance inspections along with overall GPC Program
management. Many reports are available through the servicing
bank’s EAS, IOD, and PIEE system to assist A/OPCs in the
management and oversight of the GPC program. In addition to
reviewing these reports, A/OPCs at all levels should perform and
maintain certain metrics to assess the performance of their
program. These metrics include, but are not limited to, the
following:</p>
        <p id="Table_17-1_GPC_Metrics">Table 17-1: GPC Metrics</p>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="3">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="0.2*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.6*"/>
            <colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" colwidth="1.3*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                  <entry>
                     <b>#</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <b>GPC Metric Description</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <b>GPC Metric</b>
                  </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>1</entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p>Monthly Delinquency Percentage</p>
                     <p>- zero tolerance - any percentage of receivables over 180 days
past due.</p>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>&lt; 0.75% - of its total receivables over 60 days past due.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>2</entry>
                  <entry>Span of Control - Level 4 A/OPC to Accounts (re-evaluated
biennially)</entry>
                  <entry>1:250 accounts</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>3</entry>
                  <entry>Span of Control - BO to CH Accounts</entry>
                  <entry>1:7 accounts</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>4</entry>
                  <entry>Span of Control - Maximum number of cards per CH</entry>
                  <entry>Waiver needed for more than 3</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>5</entry>
                  <entry>Annual Assessment Checklist – Level 4 A/OPC</entry>
                  <entry>100% Annually</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>6</entry>
                  <entry>PMR - Level 3 A/OPC reviews all Level 4 A/OPCs</entry>
                  <entry>100% Every 3 Years</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>7</entry>
                  <entry>PMR - Level 2 A/OPC reviews all Level 3 A/OPCs</entry>
                  <entry>100% Every 3 Years</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>8</entry>
                  <entry>Convenience Check Reviews</entry>
                  <entry>Annually</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>9</entry>
                  <entry>Training</entry>
                  <entry>Before receiving GPC or assuming duties</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>10</entry>
                  <entry>CH review of Account Statement Monthly</entry>
                  <entry>3 business days from cycle end date (19th)</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>11</entry>
                  <entry>BO Certification of Billing Statements Monthly</entry>
                  <entry>5 business days from cycle end date (19th)</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>12</entry>
                  <entry>Level 4 review of all BO and CH credit limits</entry>
                  <entry>Annually</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>13</entry>
                  <entry>Level 4 review of the ongoing need for all GPCs</entry>
                  <entry>Annually</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="3">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="0.2*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.5*"/>
            <colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" colwidth="1.3*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                  <entry>
                     <b>#</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <b>GPC Metric Description</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <b>GPC Metric</b>
                  </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>14</entry>
                  <entry>Retention of BO financial records</entry>
                  <entry>6 years</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>15</entry>
                  <entry>Separation of Duties</entry>
                  <entry>
                     <p>BO, CH, RM, APO, A/OPC must</p>
                     <p>be separate individuals</p>
                  </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>16</entry>
                  <entry>Dispute Transaction with the Servicing Bank</entry>
                  <entry>CH has 45 days from the date the transaction posted to the
account</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>17</entry>
                  <entry>IOD Data Mining</entry>
                  <entry>Table 11-1, 11-2, 11-3</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>18</entry>
                  <entry>Upload transaction supporting documentation in the bank’s
EAS</entry>
                  <entry>100% each transaction</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>19</entry>
                  <entry>Independent Receipt and Acceptance</entry>
                  <entry>100% each transaction</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>20</entry>
                  <entry>Suspend purchasing under accounts with open data mining cases or
incomplete monthly reviews</entry>
                  <entry>NLT 55 days after cycle end date (19th)</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>21</entry>
                  <entry>A/OPCs may suspend BO Accounts with open DM cases</entry>
                  <entry>30 days after cycle end date (19th)</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
