<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_5101.290" class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title outputclass="Heading 3" class="- topic/title ">
      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">5101.290</ph> Routing documents and mailing addresses.</title>
   <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
      <p id="EiNRjy" outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a)(1) Contracting activities will obtain either <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024">HCA</ph> or, if delegated, SCO concurrence on all procurement document packages submitted for Headquarters, Department of the Army (HQDA) review, coordination, and/or approval. The SCO may not delegate this authority. Procurement document packages will include all reviews and coordination completed prior to submission to HQDA, including legal reviews. Unless otherwise specified in this regulation, individual and class deviations to this AFARS provision are prohibited. Send document packages via the <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">Army’s Enterprise Task Management Software Solution (ETMS2)</ph> to the ODASA(P) directorate groups associated with the email addresses listed in <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">AFARS </ph>
         <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
               href="5101.290.dita#AFARS_5101.290"
               base="AFARS-5101.290"
               xtrc="5101.290"
               class="- topic/xref ">5101.290 Routing documents and mailing addresses.</xref>(b)(2)(ii)(C) (except as provided elsewhere in this regulation).</p>
      <p id="kMgOxY" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) The <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">C</ph>ontracting officer shall include the contract type determination required by FAR 16.103(d)(1) and <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
               href="5116.103.dita#AFARS_5116.103"
               base="AFARS-5116.103"
               xtrc="5116.103"
               class="- topic/xref ">5116.103 Negotiating contract type.</xref>(d)(1) in HQDA-level approval packages that reference contract type, including the approvals required by FAR 6.304 and FAR 16.504(c)(1)(D)(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">1</i>). If a written acquisition plan is required for the associated contract action, include the acquisition plan in the submission package and provide the acquisition plan citation in the applicable paragraph of the document submitted for review. If a written acquisition plan is not required, include the contract type determination from the contract file in the submission package.</p>
      <p id="CUUxtp" outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) Frequently used addresses:</p>
      <p id="vlyiso" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) For the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army (Procurement), use the following:</p>
      <p id="tFnWKQ" class="- topic/p ">Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army (Procurement)</p>
      <p id="EjmyzH" class="- topic/p ">Attn: SAAL-ZP</p>
      <p id="mPWffU" class="- topic/p ">103 Army Pentagon</p>
      <p id="YbSmLa" class="- topic/p ">Room 2D528</p>
      <p id="ActfOy" class="- topic/p ">Washington, DC 20310-0103.</p>
      <p id="hcqIzZ" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2)(i) For the Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army (Procurement), use the following:</p>
      <p id="trCuVm" class="- topic/p ">Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army (Procurement)</p>
      <p id="oCaBit" class="- topic/p ">
         <xref format="mailto"
               href="mailto:usarmy.pentagon.hqda-asa-alt.list.zp-current-operations@mail.mil"
               scope="external"
               class="- topic/xref ">
            usarmy.pentagon.hqda-asa-alt.list.zp-current-operations@mail.mil</xref>)</p>
      <p id="kLDzHo" class="- topic/p ">Zachary Taylor Building – 5th Floor</p>
      <p id="DbJouv" class="- topic/p ">2530 Crystal Drive</p>
      <p id="tzqYIY" outputclass="Text Body" class="- topic/p ">Arlington, VA 22202.</p>
      <p id="lHQjug" outputclass="Text Body" class="- topic/p ">The email addresses for the directorates appear in paragraph (2)(ii). Submit document packages requiring HQDA review, coordination, and/or approval via the <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">ETMS2</ph>.</p>
      <p id="CLpjtZ" outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii) Specify the directorate and email address within paragraph (2)(i) as follows:</p>
      <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A) SAAL-ZP-PP Procurement Policy, <xref href="mailto:usarmy.pentagon.hqda-asa-alt.list.saal-zp-pp@army.mil"
               format="pentagon.hqda-asa-alt.list.saal-zp-pp@army.mil.hqda-asa-alt.list.saal-zp-pp@army.mil.list.saal-zp-pp@army.mil.saal-zp-pp@army.mil.mil"
               scope="external"
               class="- topic/xref ">usarmy.pentagon.hqda-asa-alt.list.saal-zp-pp@army.mil</xref>. </p>
      <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B) SAAL-ZP-PS Procurement Support, <xref href="mailto:usarmy.pentagon.hqda-asa-alt.list.saal-ps-staff@army.mil"
               format="pentagon.hqda-asa-alt.list.saal-ps-staff@army.mil.hqda-asa-alt.list.saal-ps-staff@army.mil.list.saal-ps-staff@army.mil.saal-ps-staff@army.mil.mil"
               scope="external"
               class="- topic/xref ">usarmy.pentagon.hqda-asa-alt.list.saal-ps-staff@army.mil</xref>. </p>
      <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(<ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">C</ph>) SAAL-ZP-PE Procurement Systems, <xref href="mailto:usarmy.pentagon.hqda-asa-alt.list.saal-zp-pe@armymil"
               format="pentagon.hqda-asa-alt.list.saal-zp-pe@armymil.hqda-asa-alt.list.saal-zp-pe@armymil.list.saal-zp-pe@armymil.saal-zp-pe@armymil"
               scope="external"
               class="- topic/xref ">usarmy.pentagon.hqda-asa-alt.list.saal-zp-pe@armymil</xref>. </p>
      <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(<ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">D</ph>) SAAL-ZP-SSM Senior Services Manager, <xref href="mailto:usarmy.pentagon.hqda-asa-alt.list.saal-zp-ssm@army.mil"
               format="pentagon.hqda-asa-alt.list.saal-zp-ssm@army.mil.hqda-asa-alt.list.saal-zp-ssm@army.mil.list.saal-zp-ssm@army.mil.saal-zp-ssm@army.mil.mil"
               scope="external"
               class="- topic/xref ">usarmy.pentagon.hqda-asa-alt.list.saal-zp-ssm@army.mil</xref>. </p>
      <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">
         <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">(E) SAAL-ZP-FSD Field Support, usarmy.pentagon.hqda-asa-alt.list.saal-zp-fsd@army.mil.</ph>
      </p>
      <p id="iGQXYU" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3) For the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Financial Management and Comptroller), use the following:</p>
      <p id="oooKUn" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Financial Management and Comptroller)</p>
      <p id="loZrGx" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">109 Army Pentagon</p>
      <p id="QoqEan" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Washington, DC 20310-0109.</p>
      <p id="cyhSZZ" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(4) For the Office, Chief of Legislative Liaison, use the following:</p>
      <p id="tiwCxj" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">The Office, Chief of Legislative Liaison (OCLL)</p>
      <p id="OYuDxs" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Attn: SALL-SPA</p>
      <p id="SOyjEq" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">1600 Army Pentagon</p>
      <p id="gmZbYL" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Washington, DC 20310-1600.</p>
      <p id="DxkNCv" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(5) For the Chief, Procurement Fraud Branch, U.S. Army Legal Services Agency, use the following:</p>
      <p id="AVKIjJ" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Chief, Procurement Fraud Branch</p>
      <p id="UCjaMV" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Contract and Fiscal Law Division</p>
      <p id="IMHFpk" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">U.S. Army Legal Services Agency</p>
      <p id="EQnOll" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">9275 Gunston Road, BLDG 1450</p>
      <p id="CBacTK" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Ft Belvoir, VA 22060-5546.</p>
      <p id="CQfKGA" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(6) For the Office of the Command Counsel, Headquarters, U.S. Army Materiel Command, use the following:</p>
      <p id="tsDbJU" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Office of the Command Counsel</p>
      <p id="QzNsvn" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Headquarters U.S. Army Materiel Command</p>
      <p id="nOzMGF" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Attn: AMCCC</p>
      <p id="IozpOa" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">4400 Martin Road</p>
      <p id="yUsWlK" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Redstone Arsenal, AL 35898-5340.</p>
      <p id="MkXcmz" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(7) For the U.S. Army Contracting Command, use the following:</p>
      <p id="CQrUJk" class="- topic/p ">U.S. Army Contracting Command</p>
      <p id="SIXREb" class="- topic/p ">ATTN: AMSCC</p>
      <p id="AkwKLX" class="- topic/p ">3334A Wells Road</p>
      <p id="MtOlAn" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Redstone Arsenal, AL 35898-5000.</p>
      <p id="iflzNP" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(8) For the Directorate of Contracting, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, use the following:</p>
      <p id="EzcWlN" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">U.S. Army Corps of Engineers</p>
      <p id="WsMlPG" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Directorate of Contracting</p>
      <p id="NZNzjP" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">CECT-ZA</p>
      <p id="EgJdQl" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">441 G Street, N.W.</p>
      <p id="bLfvnJ" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Washington, DC 20314-1000.</p>
      <p id="ZdMhMs" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(9) For the Chief, Army Power Procurement Office, U.S. Army Center for Public Works, use the following:</p>
      <p id="aIItfL" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Chief, Army Power Procurement Office</p>
      <p id="CyEhLc" class="- topic/p ">U.S. Army Center for Public Works (CECPW-C)</p>
      <p id="hMdNdy" class="- topic/p ">7701 Telegraph Road</p>
      <p id="p__Toc14771647" class="- topic/p ">Alexandria, VA 22315-3862.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
