<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_5119.812"
         xml:lang="en-US"
         class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
   <title outputclass="Heading 3" class="- topic/title ">
      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">5119.812</ph> Contract administration.</title>
   <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c)(i) The <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">C</ph>ontracting officer must promptly notify the SBA of contractor performance deficiencies. The <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">C</ph>ontracting officer must promptly report to the SBA any indication that the subcontractor requires technical or management <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">assistance and</ph> document the <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">contract </ph>file accordingly.</p>
      <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii) If the SBA fails to act in a timely manner to help the contractor take corrective action, the <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">C</ph>ontracting officer must report this failure to the AD with a recommendation for action. If the AD cannot resolve the matter, he or she will refer the matter to the Director, HQDA<ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">,</ph> OSBP.</p>
      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d)(i) The Contracting officer must notify the AD and the cognizant small business <ph rev="Revised October 1, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">specialist</ph>, if an 8(a) contractor to which a contract was awarded transfers ownership or control of the firm or if the contract is transferred for any reason to another firm and a termination for convenience or waiver approval is pending.</p>
      <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p "> (ii) The Assistant Secretary of the Army (Acquisition, Logistics and Technology) is the approving authority under this section for a waiver request to be submitted to the SBA. See <xref href="https://armyeitaas.sharepoint-mil.us/:x:/r/sites/ASA-ALT-PAM-PP/AFARSPDF/AFARSGG.xlsx?d=w5cd5fba948e94467be69dbb717e123ce&amp;csf=1&amp;web=1&amp;e=AE9P0J"
               format="html"
               scope="external"
               class="- topic/xref ">Appendix GG</xref> for further delegation. </p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
