<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="AFARS_5127.7011"
         xml:lang="en-US"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <title outputclass="Heading 3">
      <ph props="autonumber">5127.7011</ph> Procurement of rights in inventions, patents, and copyrights.</title>
   <conbody>
      <p outputclass="List2">(1)  Subject to the limitations in DFARS subpart 227.70 and subpart AFARS 5127.70, the following may acquire the items and rights described in 10 U.S.C. 2386 and may enter into agreements in settlement of resulting claims:</p>
      <p outputclass="List3">(i)  The Commander, AMC.</p>
      <p outputclass="List3">(ii)  The Chief of Engineers.</p>
      <p outputclass="List3">(iii)  The Surgeon General.</p>
      <p outputclass="List3">(iv)  The Commander, U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command.</p>
      <p outputclass="List2">(2)  Other contracting activities must obtain written approval of any proposed agreement from the addressee at 5101.290(b)(1) through the Chief, Regulatory Law and Intellectual Property Law Division, OTJAG, (see 5127.201-2 for address), except for agreements for acquisition of the right to reproduce copyrighted material when acquisition cost is $2,500 or less.</p>
      <p outputclass="List2">(3)  Immediately send all communications relating to proposed patent licenses or assignment to the chief patent counsel or legal officer supporting the contracting office.</p>
      <p outputclass="List2">(4)  To assist national defense, various patent owners voluntarily grant royalty-free licenses, assignments and releases to the Government to use the inventions covered by their patents and applications for patents.  Obtain a recommended, standardized format for such a grant from the Chief, Regulatory Law and Intellectual Property Law Division, OTJAG.</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
