<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
         id="AFARS_5153.30311"
         xml:lang="en-US"
         ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <title outputclass="Heading 3" rev="Revised January 2023"> 
      <ph props="autonumber">5153.303-11</ph> Format for Determination and Findings for other than full and open competition. (DPC 2023-O0003 Class Deviation—Temporary Authorizations for Covered Contracts Related to Ukraine). </title>
   <conbody>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023">This form shall be used to document a public interest determination under 10 USC 3204(a)(7) and FAR 6.302-7 in support of the award of “covered contracts.” See DPC 2023-O0003 Class Deviation – Temporary Authorizations for Covered Contracts Related to Ukraine. </p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023">Do not use letterhead for this document. </p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023">(See AFARS <xref href="5106.3027.dita" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"/>, AFARS <xref href="PART_5153.dita#AFARS_PART_5153" outputclass="fm:Part">part  5153</xref>, and Appendix GG for further delegations) </p>
      <p outputclass="Ctr" rev="Revised January 2023">
         <b>DETERMINATION AND FINDINGS</b>
      </p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023">
         <b>Title:</b> Public Interest Determination Under <ph id="_Hlk122700391">Section 3204(a)(7) of Title 10, United States Code</ph>
      </p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023">
         <b>Authority:</b> 
      </p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023">Section 3204(a)(7) of Title 10, United States Code (10 U.S.C. 3204(a)(7))</p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023">Subsection 1244(a)(2), of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023</p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023">Defense Contracting and Pricing CLASS DEVIATION 2023-O0003 </p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023">Army FAR Supplement <xref href="5106.3027.dita" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"/> and Appendix GG</p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023"> 
         <b>Requesting Activity/Program Office:</b> 
         <i>(insert requiring/program office name – e.g. PEO Missiles and Space)</i>
      </p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023">
         <b>Contracting Activity:</b>
         <i> 
            <ph id="_Hlk122695875">(insert awarding contracting office </ph>– e.g. Army Contracting Command – Redstone Arsenal and Contracting Officer name and email address)</i>
      </p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023">
         <b>Contract Information: </b>
         <i>(insert contract number, total contract value, and total obligated dollars)</i>
      </p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023">
         <b>Anticipated Award Date:</b>
         <i> (insert award date taking into account the seven (7) congressional notification requirement.</i>
      </p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023"> 
         <b>Requirement Description:</b>
         <i>(Insert brief description of the type of supplies/services to be acquired and estimated dollar value of the award)</i>
      </p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023"> </p>
      <p outputclass="Ctr" rev="Revised January 2023">
         <b>FINDINGS</b>
      </p>
      <p outputclass="List2" rev="Revised January 2023">1. Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. section 3207(a)(7), as implemented in <ph>Federal Acquisition Regulation 6.302-7</ph>, full and open competition need not be provided for when the head of the agency determines that it is not in the public interest in the particular procurement concerned. Subsection 1244(a)(2) of the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (NDAA 2023), implemented in Class Deviation 2023-O0003, provides that a “covered contract” may be presumed to be in the public interest. A “covered contract” is any contract, subcontract, or modification of a contract, or subcontract awarded by the Department of Defense to:</p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023">□ build the stocks of critical munitions and other defense articles of the Department</p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023">□ provide materiel and related services to foreign allies and partners that have provided support to the Government of Ukraine </p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023">□ provide materiel and related services to the Government of Ukraine</p>
      <p outputclass="List2" rev="Revised January 2023">2. Pursuant to AFARS <xref href="5106.3027.dita" outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"/> and Appendix GG, the head of agency authority has been delegated to <i>(identify delegate).</i>
      </p>
      <p outputclass="List2" rev="Revised January 2023">3. Army Contracting Command – <i>(insert awarding contracting office) </i>on behalf of Program Executive Office <i>(insert the responsible PEO)</i> plans to award a contract for <i>(insert brief description)</i>. The planned contract is a “covered contract” because <i>(insert succinct explanation as to how it meets the above criteria)</i>. </p>
      <p outputclass="List2" rev="Revised January 2023"> 4. As a “covered contract” the planned award may be presumed to be in the public interest. Application of that presumption to this procurement expedites contract award and thereby advances important DoD and national objectives related to Ukraine support.<i>(add other pertinent consideratio</i>
         <i>ns).</i>
      </p>
      <p outputclass="List2" rev="Revised January 2023"> 5. The contracting activity will ensure compliance with the seven (7)-day congressional notification requirement, under NDAA 2023, subsection 1244(a)(2)(B)(iii), prior to making award.</p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023">The undersigned attest that the preceding findings are accurate and complete and are sufficient to substantiate use of the public interest exception.</p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023">
         <b>Contracting Officer:</b>
      </p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023"> 
         <ph id="_Hlk121741027">Typed Name:                                                                                                        Email:</ph>
      </p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023">Date:                                                                                                                       Signature:</p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023">
         <b>Requiring Activity/Program Executive Officer</b>
      </p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023"> Typed Name:                                                                                                        Email:</p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023">Date:                                                                                                                       Signature:</p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023">
         <b>Senior Contracting Official (when not serving as approval authority) </b>
      </p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023"> 
         <ph id="_Hlk120464986">Typed Name:                                                                                                        Email:</ph>
      </p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023">Date:                                                                                                                       Signature:</p>
      <p outputclass="Ctr" rev="Revised January 2023">
         <b>DETERMINATION</b>
      </p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023">
         <b>(By Head of the Contracting Activity or authorized delegate)</b>
      </p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023">Based upon the foregoing findings, and pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 3204(a)(7) and Federal Acquisition Regulation 6.302-7, I determine that use of full and open competition is not in the public interest for the procurement of <i>(insert description)</i>.</p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023">Typed Name:                                                                                                        Email:</p>
      <p rev="Revised January 2023">Date:                                                                                                                      Signature</p>
   </conbody>
</concept>
