<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_1-2">
      <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">1-2.</ph> GPC
Uses</title>
      <conbody>
        <p>The purchase card can be used in three ways, depending on the
value of the transaction and the authority of the cardholder (CH).
See Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 13.301. Table 1-1
summarizes the three methods and provides descriptions and
examples.</p>
        <p id="Table_1-1_GPC_Methods_and_Uses">Table 1-1: GPC Methods and Uses</p>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="3">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="0.8*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.3*"/>
            <colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" colwidth="0.9*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                  <entry>
                     <b>GPC Method</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <b>Description</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>
                     <b>Examples</b>
                  </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>
                     <b>Procurement Mechanism</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>To acquire and pay for goods and services by means other than
the use of an existing contract.</entry>
                  <entry>Micro-purchases. See paragraphs a. and b. below.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>
                     <b>Ordering Mechanism</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>To order and pay for goods and services under an existing
contract only if authorized in the contract.</entry>
                  <entry>Orders placed against existing contracts. See paragraph c.
below.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                  <entry>
                     <b>Payment Mechanism</b>
                  </entry>
                  <entry>To pay for goods and services when the Contractor agrees to
accept contract payment(s) using the GPC card.</entry>
                  <entry>Contract invoice payments. Standard Form (SF) 182 training
payments. See paragraphs d. and e. below.</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p>The GPC is the preferred method of payment for the
following:</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. <b>Micro-purchases
(Card/Cardless).</b> The GPC may be used to purchase
fixed-price commercial supplies and services that do not require
the CH to agree to any terms and conditions other than price and
delivery. These purchases are limited to the applicable
micro-purchase threshold (MPT).</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>Micro-purchases (Convenience
Check).</b> Convenience checks may be used and set up under a
separate billing official (BO) account to buy commercially
available, fixed-price supplies and services to fulfill
mission-essential requirements. All check purchases must be within
the applicable convenience check MPT. A separate account must be
issued for each convenience check account.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>Orders Against Pre-Existing Contract
Vehicles.</b> The GPC may be used to place task or delivery
orders against pre-priced contract vehicles and agreements if
authorized in the basic contract, basic ordering agreement, or
blanket purchase agreement. (Appropriated fund CHs cannot purchase
against nonappropriated fund contracts.)</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>Contract Payments.</b> The GPC may
be used to make payments against funded contracts found to be
advantageous to the Government when compared to other methods of
payment, and the contractor accepts payment by the GPC. The
contract should include the third-party payment clause identified
in FAR 32.1108, Payment by Governmentwide Commercial Purchase Card;
however, GPC contract payments may be made if the contractor agrees
to accept the GPC as a method of payment.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. <b>Payment of Training Requirements on SF
182s</b>. The GPC may be used as the method of payment for
commercial training requests using the SF 182, valued at or below
$25,000, in lieu of an employee reimbursement by miscellaneous
payment in accordance with the procedures to directly pay the
provider in DoD Financial Management Regulation (FMR) Volume 10,
Chapter 12, Section 120323, and DoD Instruction (DoDI) 1400.25,
Volume 410.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
