<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_11-10">
      <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">11-10.</ph> Cardholder Fraud and Merchant
Fraud</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. <b>Cardholder Fraud, Misuse and
Abuse</b>. This type of fraud occurs when a cardholder uses
their account to transact business that is not sanctioned, not
authorized, not in one’s official Government capacity, not
for the purpose for which the card was issued, and/or not as part
of official Government business. Intentional use of a GPC account
for other than official Government business constitutes abuse, and
depending on the situation, may constitute fraud.</p>
        <p id="Figure_11-2_Violation_Category_Decision" outputclass="List1">b.
<b>Consequences of Cardholder Fraud</b>. Cardholders have
a responsibility to use the account to procure supplies and
services at the direction of the Army under official purchase
authorization. If a CH abuses the GPC or participates in fraud, the
Army may cancel the purchase account and take appropriate
disciplinary action against the CH. In the case of account abuse,
any participating employee may be held personally liable to the
Federal Government for the amount of any unauthorized transaction.
Depending on the facts involved, an employee may be subject to fine
or imprisonment for action relating to purchase account abuse and
fraud. There are guidelines and procedures for disciplinary action
to be taken against individuals for the improper, fraudulent, or
abusive use of the purchase account. Purchase account abuse/fraud
may have the following potential consequences:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Counseling</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Cancellation of card account</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Notation in employee performance evaluation</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) Reprimand</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">5) Suspension of employment</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">6) Termination of employment</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">7) Criminal prosecution</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>If Cardholder Fraud Occurs</b>. If
an A/OPC suspects that a BO or CH has committed fraud, the A/OPC
should first contact the individual’s command. The A/OPC may
file a complaint with the Army Inspector General. Investigations
are initiated upon receipt of a complaint or other information that
gives a reasonable account of the wrongful or fraudulent act. The
DoD hotline phone number is 800-424-9098 to report fraud. A/OPCs
should be as specific as possible when reporting fraud. The
following information should be provided:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Employee's full name</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Rank or pay grade</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Duty station</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) Specific suspected fraudulent act or
wrongdoing</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">5) Specific dates and times</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">6) Specific location of where the suspected
fraudulent act occurred</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">7) How the individual completed the alleged
fraudulent act</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>Merchant Fraud</b>. This type of
fraud is committed by the merchant. Merchant fraud can occur either
with or without the CH’s knowledge or consent. Rotating
sources may help prevent this type of fraud. Billing errors, such
as duplicate charges, are not considered merchant fraud. Examples
include:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) A vendor intentionally charges for items not
delivered/services not performed.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) A vendor offers bribes and gratuities to a
government employee in exchange for gaining purchasing
activity.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
