<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_14-1">
      <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">14-1.</ph> Authorized Purchases</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. An authorized purchase satisfies a current
mission-related need at a fair and reasonable price that meets all
legal and regulatory requirements. It meets the following five
criteria:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) <b>Lawful</b>. Purchase is funded and
authorized by law or regulation, and the requested item/service
fits the appropriation which is being used. See 48 CFR 13.301(a)
and 31 USC 1301(a).</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) <b>Legitimate Government Need</b>.
Request is for official purposes and not for the personal benefit
of a government employee.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) <b>Bona Fide Need (Current Year
Appropriation)</b>. Request is for the need of the current
year of the appropriation. This rule does not prevent maintaining a
legitimate inventory at reasonable and historical levels. See 31
USC 1502.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) <b>Minimum Needs of the
Government</b>. Request should not exceed what is truly
required. See FAR 11.103(c)(1).</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">5) <b>Fair and Reasonable Price</b>.
Price charged is fair to both parties, considering the quality and
timeliness of performance and delivery. Micro-purchases may be
awarded without seeking competitive quotes if the CH or BO
considers the price to be reasonable. Cardholders should obtain
multiple quotes if they suspect that the price is not reasonable or
if buying a supply/service for which no comparable pricing is
readily available. See FAR 13.203(a)(3).</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>Funding</b>. Funds must be
committed and obligated prior to purchase. BOs must ensure that
sufficient funds are obligated within the financial system before
providing approval to the CH to make the purchase. CHs must screen
the purchase request to verify the BO has approved the requirement
to make the purchase. For CHs who use GFEBS, a purchase request
with sufficient funding must have L4 approval before the card is
swiped.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>Contract Payments</b>. If a valid
procurement requirement has resulted in the award of a government
contract, the GPC may be used as a method of payment against the
contract, even if the acquisition would otherwise be for a GPC
prohibited item.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
