<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_3-1">
      <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">3-1.</ph> System Requirements</title>
      <conbody>
        <p>All bank and Government systems used in support of GPC accounts
will include the following internal controls:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Systems access security,</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Systems administration integrity,</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Data exchange security, and</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) Functional responsibility controls.</p>
        <p id="Toc149838209" outputclass="List1">a. <b>Systems
Access Security</b>. Appropriate safeguards will be in place
to control access to systems. All DoD systems will utilize CAC
login for user authentication. Electronic systems used to support
the DoD GPC Program must limit access to various functions to only
individuals with appropriate authority. DoD GPC personnel are
required to use the PIEE SSO capability to log into the
card-issuing bank’s EAS, unless granted a waiver by DPCAP. <ph id="_12.2.1.1_Authorization_Roles"/>
        </p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>Systems Administration
Integrity</b>. Changes to existing
interfaces, or creation of new interfaces, must be approved by
DPCAP in advance of planning and implementation. <xref format="html"
               href="https://www.acquisition.gov/dfars/subpart-204.73-safeguarding-covered-defense-information-and-cyber-incident-reporting"
               scope="external">DFARS
204.73</xref> provides information on basic requirements that all DoD
system contractors must meet. All DoD systems that support the GPC
will be documented in accordance with the requirements of <xref format="html"
               href="https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/500075p.PDF"
               scope="external">DoDI
5000.75</xref> (for internal DoD systems) and <xref format="html"
               href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/dars/dfars/html/current/204_73.htm"
               scope="external">DFARS
204.73</xref> for contractor systems. <ph id="_12.2.3_Exchange_of"/>
        </p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>Data Exchange Security</b>.
Transmission of all electronic account data will be processed
through secure lines of communication. <ph id="_12.3_Use_of"/>DPCAP requires that any interface used to
send files via file transfer must utilize GEX. DPCAP-approved
interfaces that leverage an application program interface to make
system-to-system calls are exempt from utilizing GEX as an
intermediary. “EDI” refers to the automated process for
receiving electronic transactions, obligations, invoice, receiving,
and other records from a card-issuing bank via GEX to the
accounting, ERP, DFAS, or other system. To ensure funding
confirmation and reconciliation information integrity, original
transactions/invoices will be maintained and cannot be altered.
Cardholders will not be able to alter their statements of account
once they approve them unless a BO returns a statement to a CH for
corrections. Billing officials and Certifying Officers will not be
able to alter billing statements (invoices) once they are
certified.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>Invoice Integrity</b>. An
electronic certification process will be used to ensure that the
official (i.e., original, unaltered) electronic invoice is
traceable from the card-issuing bank through the certification and
entitlement processes and retained in a government record. The BO
will ensure any corrections or additions to the original invoice
(e.g., reallocations to different funding lines) are proper and the
payment totals have not changed. Altering a voucher that is already
certified invalidates the original certification. Known or
suspected fraudulent transactions not initiated by the authorized
CH will be reported as external fraud directly to the card-issuing
bank. When external fraud is properly reported to the bank, the
current card account must be closed and a new account issued. The
BO and A/OPC must be notified immediately, and the CH will comply
with the bank’s external fraud reporting procedures. <ph id="Toc149838217"/>
        </p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. <b>Functional Responsibility
Controls</b>. Systems must be able to segregate role-based
capabilities and limit access to these functions to individuals
with appropriate authority. The systems must be able to identify
who made any data/file content changes in the end-to-end GPC
process. Management oversight reports will be available to report
on individual personnel roles and responsibilities.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
