<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_APPENDIX-AA_c-3">
        <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">C-3</ph> Purpose</title>
        <conbody>
          <p id="policy">
            <b>Policy Perspective on Use of
LPTA</b>. The DoD Source Selection Procedures includes a
separate Appendix C devoted to the LPTA Source Selection Process
(reference 4).</p>
          <p>Of note, and identified upfront in the DoD Source Selection
Guide, is reference to DFARS 215.101-2-70 Limitations and
Prohibitions specific to types of procurements and when LPTA is NOT
to be used as a source selection procedure and when contracting
officers are required to avoid using LPTA or are prohibited from
using the process.</p>
          <p>The use of LPTA has increased but not necessarily successfully
in all cases, causing concern by both the government and industry
partners. Some specific concerns include:</p>
          <p> Government officials are not able to adequately define
the requirement and, therefore, not able to adequately define
technical acceptability.</p>
          <p> Awarded prices are unrealistically low.</p>
          <p>o Incumbent contractors underbid at unrealistic prices.</p>
          <p>o Winning contractors cannot attract qualified employees.</p>
          <p>o Contractors are unable to perform at acceptable quality
levels.</p>
          <p> Poor outcomes from using LPTA endanger the security of
government resources, to include information systems and networks
and personnel.</p>
        </conbody>
      </concept>
