<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_APPENDIX-AA_e-1_1">
          <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">E-1.1</ph> Purpose</title>
          <conbody>
            <p>The purpose of Appendix E is to provide acquisition
professionals with guidance and/or best practices for conducting
market research, developing solicitations, evaluating proposals,
and awarding acquisitions requiring intellectual property (IP),
data deliverables, and associated license rights. IP, data
deliverables, and associated license rights are required for the
operation, maintenance, installation, and training (OMIT);
modernization; and sustainment of Army systems and services
throughout a program’s lifecycle.</p>
            <p>Historically, the acquisition of IP, data deliverables and
associated licenses has been constrained by the Government’s
inability to accurately define requirements, resulting in a number
of programs becoming “vendor locked” into sole source
agreements. The Government is now focused on reducing the number of
sole source arrangements, promoting competition to the maximum
extent practical, and avoiding or mitigating scenarios where a
small amount of proprietary technology restricts a competitive
re-procurement or sustainment of a system or service.</p>
            <p>Title 10, U.S.C. § 2464(a)(1) states that the DoD must
maintain a “ready and controlled” source of technical
competencies and resources necessary to ensure effective and timely
response to mobilization, national defense contingency situations,
and other emergency requirements. In order to achieve that
objective, appropriate levels of IP, data deliverables, and
associated license rights must be obtained. The acquisition
authority for licensing, management of IP, data deliverables and
associated license rights is Title 10, U.S.C. Chapter 275,
Proprietary Contractor Data and Rights in Technical Data.</p>
            <p>The Program Office is responsible for preparing an IP Strategy,
which is summarized, or wholly contained within, in the Acquisition
Strategy/Plan sent to the Contracting Officer. The IP Strategy is a
living document that identifies and manages the full spectrum of
required IP, data deliverables, and associated license rights from
inception of a program through the complete life cycle. The
continuous assessment of program needs can lead to achieving
greater competition and more affordable sustainment costs within
the business objectives of the program.</p>
            <p>The information provided in this Appendix and referenced
templates are focused on generating thoughts and discussions among
and across the respective acquisition teams. Use and/or modify as
appropriate for individual acquisitions.</p>
            <p>
              <i>NOTE: This guide may be used for all source selections,
however, the language used in this guide is tailored to FAR Part 15
processes and procedures.</i>
            </p>
          </conbody>
        </concept>
