<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_APPENDIX-AA_Chapter-5_Appendix-E_chapter_6">
        <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">CHAPTER 6</ph> Laws, Regulations, and Policies</title>
        <conbody>
          <p>
            <b>1. <u>Laws</u>
            </b>
          </p>
          <p>In accordance with Title 10, U.S.C. 2464(a)(1), “It is
essential for the national defense that the Department of Defense
maintain a core logistics capability that is Government-owned and
Government-operated (including Government personnel and
Government-owned and Government-operated equipment and facilities)
to ensure a ready and controlled source of technical competence and
resources necessary to ensure effective and timely response to a
mobilization, national defense contingency situations, and other
emergency requirements.”</p>
          <p>To achieve this objective, program acquisitions must include the
appropriate levels of IP, data deliverables, and associated license
rights. The acquisition authority for licensing, management of IP,
data deliverables and associated license rights required to
maintain “ready and controlled” source of technical
competencies and resources is under the authority of Title 10,
U.S.C. §§ 3771-3775.</p>
          <p>
            <b>2. <u>Regulations</u>
            </b>
          </p>
          <p>The regulations for the acquisition of IP, data deliverables,
and associated license rights are in set forth in FAR Part 27 (See
DoD exclusion in FAR 27.400) – Patents, Data, and Copy
Rights, and DFARS Part 227 – Patents, Data, and
Copyrights.</p>
          <p id="Toc456276527">
            <b>3. <u>Data
Markings</u>
            </b>
          </p>
          <p>The Government’s rights in non-commercial technical data
shall be governed by DFARS 252.227-7013. The Government’s
rights in non-commercial computer software and noncommercial
computer software documentation shall be governed by DFARS
252.227-7014. The Government’s rights in Small Business
Innovation Research (SBIR) technical data shall be governed by
DFARS 252.227-7018. The Government's rights in commercial technical
data deliverables shall be governed by DFARS 252.227-7015. All
non-commercial technical data deliverables shall be properly marked
in accordance with the marking requirements set forth in DFARS
252.227-7013(f). Technical data deliverables with non-conforming
restrictive markings shall be rejected and corrected by the
Contractor, in accordance with DFARS 252.227-7013(h)(2) and DFARS
252.227-7014(h)(2), respectively.</p>
        </conbody>
      </concept>
