<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_5-4">
      <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">5-4.</ph> Account Termination</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. Only cardholders with a continuing need to use
the GPC will retain their card and appointment. At least 60
calendar days prior to reassignment, separation, or retirement, the
CH or BO should notify the A/OPC of their change in status and
begin to transition their duties and files over to another
appointed organization representative. The BO must advise the Level
4 A/OPC when a CH no longer has a continuing need to use the card
or when the CH transfers to other duties or organizations, retires,
or leaves Government service.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. The Level 4 A/OPC will terminate the CH’s
or BO’s appointment in JAM, close the account in the
servicing bank, and remove the User ID. The physical card must be
destroyed. When a CH account is terminated or closed, the CH will
surrender the GPC and submit the account documentation to the
BO.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. When a BO vacates their assignment, and a new
BO is assigned, all CH accounts remain active under the existing
managing account. The departing BO must reconcile their account
within US Bank and with Financial Management prior to vacating
their GPC roles and responsibilities. CH accounts will be suspended
anytime there is no an Alternate BO or BO assigned to the managing
account.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. Military and civilian out-processing checklists
must include a mandatory A/OPC sign-off for BOs and CHs.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
