<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_16-4">
      <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">16-4.</ph> Funding Non-Standard Ammunition
(NSA)</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. The Deputy Chief of Staff (DCS) G –
37/TRA validates and authorizes all NSA requirements except for
organizations in AR 5-13 “Army Munitions Requirements,
Prioritization, and Authorizations Management Policy”
paragraphs 2–1b and 2-7 of this regulation, when they are
procuring NSA for their respective requirements and not requesting
NSA from Army inventory.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. Policy memorandum for procurement of NSA dated
8 Aug 2008 establishes Army policy for NSA. This memorandum directs
all Army NSA procurements be forwarded to JPEO A&amp;A to execute.
If valid reasons exist, making it impractical for JPEO A&amp;A to
procure NSA, the procuring organization will coordinate with JPEO
A&amp;A in writing. The JPEO A&amp;A will have final approval
authority to allow other Army organizations to procure Non-Standard
Ammunition by following the exception to policy procedures in this
chapter.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. Procurement of Ammunition, Army (PAA) is the
<b>only</b> appropriation authorized for ammunition
procurement within the Army. JPEO A&amp;A will make the
determination if any other funding may be used when using the GPC.
Alternatively, Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation
(RDT&amp;E) appropriations can be used to procure end items,
weapons, equipment, components, materials and services required for
development of equipment, material, or computer application
software, where applicable.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
