<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_6-11">
      <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">6-11.</ph> Non-Disputable Charges</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. <b>Card Misuse by Cardholder</b>.
Charges that involve misuse or abuse by the CH are not disputable
with the servicing bank. If the transaction was processed in
accordance with established controls (e.g., within the purchase
limits, not from a merchant with a blocked Merchant Category Code,
then the bank has fulfilled its responsibilities under the
contract, and the Government is obligated to make payment for the
transaction. The Government will take appropriate action, as
prescribed in Chapter 11, Disciplinary actions, to seek restitution
because of the improper misuse or abuse.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>Sales Tax</b>. If a charge
involves sales tax erroneously invoiced by the merchant, the amount
of the tax cannot be disputed with the bank. The CH should try to
obtain a credit from the merchant. If a credit is not obtained, the
CH should inform and request assistance from the A/OPC. The CH
should seek restitution via the guidance provided by the <xref format="html"
               href="https://smartpay.gsa.gov/smarttax/tax-information-by-state/"
               scope="external">
            <u>GSA
SmartPay Tax Exemption website</u>.</xref> The CH should document the
file accordingly.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>Shipping Costs</b>. If a charge
involves shipping costs erroneously invoiced by the merchant, the
amount of the erroneous shipping costs cannot be disputed. The CH
should try to obtain a credit for the transportation costs from the
merchant. If a credit is not obtained, the CH should inform and
request assistance from the servicing bank. The CH should document
the file accordingly.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>Convenience Checks</b>. There is
no convenience check dispute process within the bank. Any concerns
with a purchase made by check must be resolved directly with the
merchant. The checkwriter is responsible for securing restitution
and/or credit for disputed purchases. The checkwriter will notify
the A/OPC and request assistance to resolve disputes if necessary.
Each organization is responsible for checks written on the account,
unless it is determined fraudulent activity is involved.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. <b>Third-party Payments</b>. If a
dispute with a merchant involves a third-party payer (e.g., Google
Pay, PayPal), the dispute is not with the third-party payer, but
with the merchant. The bank has no privity to the transaction, and
the CH must resolve the dispute with the merchant and/or the credit
card company.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
