<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_8-6">
      <title>
      <ph props="autonumber">8-6.</ph> Training Purchase Examples</title>
      <conbody>
        <p>The following examples demonstrate how to apply the above
guidance in purchasing situations:</p>
        <p/>
        <p/>
        <p outputclass="List1">a.</p>
        <p>
          <b>Situation 1</b>
        </p>
        <p>. Five individuals each have an approved SF 182 authorizing them
to attend</p>
        <p>in-person</p>
        <p>leadership training. The cost of the training is $</p>
        <p>6</p>
        <p>,</p>
        <p>0</p>
        <p>00 per student (seat). The training will take place</p>
        <p>off</p>
        <p>the installation. The details of the training session, including
date and location, are advertised on the vendor’s
website.</p>
        <p/>
        <p/>
        <p>
          <b>Resolution</b>
        </p>
        <p>. The CH may use the GPC because he/she is paying for individual
slots in an existing COTS course. Even though the total price is
$</p>
        <p>30</p>
        <p>,000, the CH may use the GPC because each student’s slot
is within the $25,000 SF 182 payment limit. The training
institution should invoice $</p>
        <p>6</p>
        <p>,</p>
        <p>0</p>
        <p>00 for each approved student. </p>
        <p/>
        <p/>
        <p outputclass="List1">b.</p>
        <p>
          <b>Situation 2</b>
        </p>
        <p>. Three individuals each have an approved SF 182 authorizing
them to attend conflict resolution training. The cost of the
training is $2,000 per student (seat). The training is to be held
virtually and is open to the public.  The date of the class is
advertised on the vendor’s website.</p>
        <p/>
        <p/>
        <p>
          <b>Resolution</b>
        </p>
        <p>. The CH may use the GPC because he/she is paying for individual
slots in an existing COTS course. The cost per slot is within the
$25,000 SF 182 payment limit. The training institution may either
invoice per student (three $2,000 transactions) or per total cost
(one $6,000 transaction). </p>
        <p/>
        <p/>
        <p outputclass="List1">c.</p>
        <p>
          <b>Situation 3</b>
        </p>
        <p>. The</p>
        <p>requiring</p>
        <p>activity is requesting a COTS training course for 15 students
for a total cost of $</p>
        <p>8</p>
        <p>,000.  The course description is listed on the
vendor’s website</p>
        <p>. T</p>
        <p>he</p>
        <p>activity</p>
        <p>is asking the vendor to teach the course on the installation at
a particular date and time. </p>
        <p/>
        <p/>
        <p>
          <b>Resolution.</b>
        </p>
        <p>The CH may use the GPC because the total</p>
        <p>purchase</p>
        <p>cost is within the applicable services MPT. The activity is
purchasing an entire COTS course (group training), which is
considered a service and a FAR-based action. Because</p>
        <p>training</p>
        <p>is considered a professional service, the applicable purchase
limit is $10,000. Cardholders authorized to make micro-purchases
can make the purchase if the vendor does not require agreement to
terms and conditions other than price and delivery.</p>
        <p>Alternately</p>
        <p>, if the course is available on an existing contract or BPA, a
CH with Contract Ordering Official authority could make the
purchase.</p>
        <p/>
        <p/>
        <p outputclass="List1">d.</p>
        <p>
          <b>Situation 4</b>
        </p>
        <p>. The</p>
        <p>requiring</p>
        <p>activity is seeking to procure a virtual COTS retirement
training course for up to 30 individuals. The estimated total cost
of the retirement training is $</p>
        <p>12</p>
        <p>,000.</p>
        <p/>
        <p/>
        <p>
          <b>Resolution.</b>
        </p>
        <p>The CH cannot purchase with the GPC because</p>
        <p>the total cost</p>
        <p>exceeds the applicable services MPT.  The activity is
purchasing an entire COTS course (group training), which is
considered a service and a FAR-based action.</p>
        <p>Because training is considered a professional service, the
applicable purchase limit is $10,000.</p>
        <p>  The CH should direct the request to the contracting
office for action.</p>
        <p>Alternately</p>
        <p>, if the course is available on an existing contract or BPA, a
CH with Contract Ordering Official authority could make the
purchase.</p>
        <p/>
        <p/>
        <p/>
        <p outputclass="List1">e.</p>
        <p>
          <b>Situation 5</b>
        </p>
        <p>. The</p>
        <p>requiring</p>
        <p>activity is seeking a vendor to provide specialized training on
an Army vehicle.  The government has outlined the course
requirements in a statement of work, and the vendor is creating a
new course according to the government’s request.</p>
        <p/>
        <p/>
        <p>
          <b>Resolution</b>
        </p>
        <p>. The CH cannot purchase with the GPC because the course is
considered tailored training. The CH must send the request to the
contracting office for action.  If desired, the GPC may be
used as the method of payment on the awarded contract.</p>
        <p/>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
