<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_9-10">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">9-10.</ph> Commercial Platforms</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. An e-marketplace platform is an online platform
where CHs can evaluate and order products via a portal operated by
a vendor: the portal provider. The e-marketplace platforms can
offer portal provider products and/or third-party vendor products.
Portal providers and third-party vendors are generally responsible
for fulfilling orders for their respective products. The
e-marketplace model encourages robust competition not only at the
platform level by offering millions of products across thousands of
suppliers, but also at the product level, with multiple suppliers
competing to sell a given product.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. <xref format="html" href="https://www.gsa.gov/buy-through-us/purchasing-programs/commercial-platforms" scope="external">GSA’s
Commercial Platforms program</xref> (also known as GSA’s
e-commerce platforms) provides a managed channel for open-market
purchases through select commercial online platforms.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. Third-party payment processor policy does not
apply to e-commerce platforms or brick-and-mortar merchants that do
not accept payment using third-party payment processors. In the
e-commerce space, this includes, at a minimum, those in GSA’s
Commercial Platforms program, and AmazonBusiness.com. If a platform
changes their payment practices and begins allowing use of
third-party payment processors, the Army will validate each
applicable e-commerce platform continues to disallow use of
third-party payment processors. This revalidation will occur at
least semi-annually, to include notifying GPC oversight personnel
and CHs whether the applicable e-commerce platform does
not/continues not to accept payment using third party payment
processors.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>E-Marketplace Platform Method of
Payment</b>. The GPC is the only authorized method of payment
for purchases placed on the e-marketplace platforms. Cardholders
are not allowed to use any other forms of payment, including
third-party payment processors (e.g., PayPal, Venmo, Google Wallet,
WePay) or payments using any form of cryptocurrency.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. <b>Compliance with AbilityOne</b>.
Mandatory sources such as AbilityOne are effectively represented
and promoted in this program. Rather than simply state that
e-marketplaces are required to “block and sub” the
commercial item for the AbilityOne item, GSA requires platform
providers to prevent the sale of a commercial item which is
“essentially the same” as an item on the AbilityOne
Procurement List. In addition, GSA requires platform providers to
ensure the vendors selling AbilityOne products are, in fact,
authorized distributors.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">f. <b>Data Visibility</b>. Identifying
leakage through the commercial platforms will allow the Army the
ability to identify purchases that could be going to AbilityOne
distributors, small business suppliers, excluded entities, or spend
outside of strategic or mandatory-use agency contracts. This data
then allows the Army to take the necessary action to appropriately
manage this spend. Spend data is available to the Army through
on-demand reports and dashboards, allowing the Army to see
line-level spend from all e-marketplace platforms. Cardholders also
have real-time, account level access to their purchasing data
through the e-marketplace platforms for purchase card
reconciliation and spend analysis.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>