<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_17-4">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">17-4.</ph> Custom Reports within the Servicing
Bank</title>
      <conbody>
        <p>In addition to the ability to access and run standard reports,
the servicing bank has created custom reports available to the
Army. Users can run these custom reports in three basic steps:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) <b>Select the report</b>. Begin by
accessing the custom reports function and then navigating to and
selecting the custom report you want to run.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) <b>Specify parameters</b>. Set
parameters for the report, such as date range.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) <b>Run the report</b>. After
specifying any report-specific parameters, select to run the report
or save and then run the report.</p>
        <p id="Table_17-9_Summary_of_Custom_Reports">Table 17-9: Summary of Custom Reports</p>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry id="Account_information_reports">
                  <b>Account
information reports</b>
                </entry>
                <entry id="Transaction_activity_reports">
                  <b>Transaction
activity reports</b>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry id="Account_Approval_Status">Account Approval Status</entry>
                <entry id="All_Convenience_Check_Transactions">All Convenience
Check Transactions</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry id="Account_List">Account List</entry>
                <entry id="Cash_Activity_Only">Cash Activity Only</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry id="Accounts_with_High_Credit_Limits">Accounts with High
Credit Limits</entry>
                <entry id="Declined_Transactions">Declined Transactions</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry id="Accounts_with_Underutilized_Credit_Limit">Accounts
with Underutilized Credit Limits</entry>
                <entry id="Frequent_Credits_by_Merchant">Frequent Credits by
Merchant</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry id="Active_Accounts_with_Multiple_Lost_Stole">Active
Accounts with Multiple Lost/Stolen Cards</entry>
                <entry id="Frequent_Credit_Transactions">Frequent Credit
Transactions</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry id="Billing_Approval_Official_Conflict_of_In">Billing/Approval
Official Conflict of Interest</entry>
                <entry id="High_Cardholder_Spending_by_Merchant">High Cardholder
Spending by Merchant</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry id="Certification_and_Payment_Report">Certification and
Payment Report</entry>
                <entry id="Large_Dollar_Transactions">Large Dollar
Transactions</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry id="MCC_MAT_Codes_Assigned_to_CH_Accounts">MCC/MAT Codes
Assigned to CH Accounts</entry>
                <entry id="Mismatched_Authorizations">Mismatched
Authorizations</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry morerows="10"/>
                <entry id="Over_Limit_Convenience_Check_Transaction">Over Limit
Convenience Check Transactions</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry id="Payment_and_Prompt_Payment_Act_Interest">Payment and Prompt Payment Act
Interest Penalty Transactions</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry id="Potential_Split_Requirement_Review">Potential Split
Requirement Review</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry id="Retail_Transaction">Retail Transaction</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry id="Suspect_Merchants">Suspect Merchants</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry id="Transactions_at_Blocked_MCCs">Transactions at Blocked
MCCs</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry id="Transactions_Without_Authorization">Transactions
Without Authorization</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry id="Transactions_without_Terminal_IDs">Transactions
without Terminal IDs</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry id="Transaction_Detail">Transaction Detail</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry id="Travel_Industry_Transactions">Travel Industry
Transactions</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry id="Unusual_Spending_Activity">Unusual Spending
Activity</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p id="Table_17-10_Custom_Reports_of_Account_I">Table 17-10: Custom Reports of Account
Information</p>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="0.6*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.4*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <b>Report</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Report Description</b>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Account Approval Status</entry>
                <entry>This report provides a list of accounts with the approval status
for each account. You can use this report to track the approval
workflow for your program.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Account List</entry>
                <entry>This report provides a list of accounts by one or more
processing hierarchy positions or one or more reporting hierarchy
positions.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Accounts with High Credit Limits</entry>
                <entry>This report provides a list of accounts that have maximum credit
limits over a specified amount. You can use the report to mitigate
risk and review credit limits. The report presents all credit
limits for analysis.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Accounts with underutilized Credit Limits</entry>
                <entry>You can use this report to assist in your review of cardholder
spend against the cardholder’s maximum credit limit. In this
way, you can identify cardholder accounts that may need credit
limit adjustments.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Active Accounts with Multiple Lost and Stolen Cards</entry>
                <entry>This report lists accounts that have multiple lost and/or stolen
cards. You can use the report to identify accounts that may be
misusing their cards so that you can improve program
management.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Billing/Approval Official Conflict of Interest</entry>
                <entry>This report lists cardholder accounts that the BO has approved
in Access Online. You can use this report to identify potential
lack of separation of duties between BOs and cardholders.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Certification and Payment Report</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>This report provides information on certification status and
payment, including cycle close date, amount certified, last payment
date and last</p>
                  <p>payment amount. You can use this report to make sure your
approvals, certifications, and payments are on track.</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>MCC/MAT Codes Assigned to CH Accounts</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>This report lists merchant category codes (MCCs)/merchant
activity type (MAT) codes assigned to cardholder accounts. You can
use this report to gain an overall picture of which merchants are
available for</p>
                  <p>cardholder purchases.</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p id="Table_17-11_Custom_Reports_of_Transacti">Table 17-11: Custom Reports of Transaction
Activity</p>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="0.6*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.4*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <b>Report</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Report Description</b>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>All Convenience Check Transactions</entry>
                <entry>This report lists all convenience check transactions within your
organization to help you identify trends inconvenience check
transactions and possible misuse of convenience checks.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Cash Activity Only</entry>
                <entry>This report provides a list of accounts that have only cash
transactions, including transaction and merchant information. You
can use this report to monitor program compliance.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Declined Transactions</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>This report lists transactions that a merchant declined at point
of sale.</p>
                  <p>You can use this report to monitor declined transactions, audit
program compliance, and identify training needs.</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Frequent Credits by Merchant</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>This report lists merchants who have a high number of credits as
part of their overall number of transactions versus debits over a
specified time period (e.g., 30 percent of all transactions between
December 1 and December 31 were credits). You can use this report
to identify</p>
                  <p>potential card misuse at specific merchants and thereby improve
program management.</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Frequent Credit Transactions</entry>
                <entry>This report lists accounts with a high percentage of credits
relative to purchases (e.g., 30 percent credits and 70% debits).
You can use this report to identify potential card misuse.</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="0.6*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.4*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <b>Report</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Report Description</b>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>High Cardholder Spending by Merchant</entry>
                <entry>This report lists cardholder accounts with a high level of
spending with a specific merchant. You can use this report to
identify potential card misuse, including cardholder collusion with
a merchant.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Large Dollar Transactions</entry>
                <entry>This report lists transactions that are over a specified
purchase limit, which can help you identify possible misuse.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Mismatched Authorizations</entry>
                <entry>This report lists transactions for which the authorization
amount approved does not match the final transaction amount. You
can use this report to help identify card misuse and improve
program management.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Over Limit Convenience Check Transactions</entry>
                <entry>This report lists convenience check transactions that are
greater than a specified amount. You can use this report to help
identify transactions that may require an independent review to
mitigate risk.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Payment and Prompt Payment Act Interest Penalty Transactions</entry>
                <entry>This report lists all Payment and Prompt Payment Act interest
penalty transactions. You can use this report to identify timely
certification and payment processing for your organization</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Potential Split Requirement Review</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>This report lists CHs associated to the same managing account
who have multiple transactions with the same vendor that total a
specified amount or more over a specified number of days (e.g.,
Jane Doe has transactions totaling $2,000 with Quick Office Supply
between January 10 and January 11). You can use this report to
identify possible</p>
                  <p>instances of CHs splitting a transaction among multiple dates to
get around spending limits (e.g., get around a SPL of $1,500).</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Retail Transaction</entry>
                <entry>This report provides a list of retail transactions, including
account information, merchant information, and transaction
information. You can use this report to monitor policy and program
compliance.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Suspect Merchants</entry>
                <entry>This report provides a list of transactions with suspect
merchants, including account information, merchant information, and
transaction information. You can use this report to monitor policy
and program compliance.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Transactions at Blocked MCCs</entry>
                <entry>This report lists transactions at blocked merchant category
codes (MCCs). You can use this report to track and manage vendor
relationships and identify potential card misuse.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Transactions Without Authorization</entry>
                <entry>The report shows transactions the cardholder did not obtain an
authorization for. By tracking transactions without authorization,
you can identify potential card misuse and improve program
management.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Transactions without Terminal IDs</entry>
                <entry>This report shows transactions for which no terminal ID was
obtained. You can use this report to help identify potential card
misuse and to improve program management.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Transaction Detail</entry>
                <entry>This report provides detailed transaction information, including
account, merchant, transaction, and allocation information. You can
use this report for overall program management.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Travel Industry Transactions</entry>
                <entry>This report identifies transactions (over a specified amount)
from merchants in the travel industry. You can use this report to
help identify potential card misuse.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Unusual Spending Activity</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>This report lists transactions a cardholder made on a weekend or
transactions that appear to be split transactions. You can use
this</p>
                  <p>report to identify potential card misuse and thereby improve
program management.</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </conbody>
    </concept>