<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_Appendix_b" class="- topic/topic concept/concept "><title class="- topic/title "><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">APPENDIX B</ph>: DEFINITIONS</title><conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody "><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">AbilityOne Program</b> - FAR Subpart 8.7 - This
socioeconomic program provides employment opportunities for over
40,000 Americans who are blind or have other severe disabilities by
orchestrating Government purchases of products and services
provided by nonprofit agencies employing such individuals
throughout the country. The Committee for Purchase from People Who
Are Blind or Severely Disabled statute, (41 USC 8501-8506) requires
the Government to purchase supplies or services on the Procurement
List, at prices established by the Committee, from AbilityOne
participating nonprofit agencies if they are available within the
period required.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Abuse</b> - Intentional use of the GPC in violation
of the FAR, DFARS, Agency supplements, or activity Government
Charge Card Program policies/procedures. Evidence of intentionality
will be inferred from repeat offenses of the same violation,
following administrative and/or disciplinary action taken for this
violation. This category is reportable to OMB and classified as
Intentional.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Accountable Property</b> - AR 735-5 - A term used
to identify property recorded in a formal property management or
accounting system. Accountable property includes all property
purchased, leased (capital leases), or otherwise obtained having a
unit acquisition cost of $5,000 or more (land, regardless of cost),
and items that are sensitive. Sensitive items require a high degree
of protection and control due to statutory requirements or
regulations, such as narcotics and drug abuse items; precious
metals; items which are of a high value, highly technical, or a
hazardous nature; and small arms, ammunition, explosives, and
demolition material or classified. (See Volume 10, Table 61 of DoD
4100.39-M reference (k).) Additional and/or separate records or
other record-keeping instruments will be established for management
purposes, or when otherwise required by law, policy, regulation, or
agency direction, including, but not limited to pilferable items.
Pilferable items have a ready resale value or application to
personal possession and are, therefore, especially subject to
theft. Screening by the Accountable Property Officer (APO) is
required to determine the accounting requirements of the purchased
property. The installation APO provides guidance on specific local
property accountability procedures to the A/OPC, BOs, and CHs
related to GPC purchases.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Administrative Discrepancy</b> - Actions that
violate operational policies/procedures but do not violate federal
law or regulation. This category is not reportable to OMB.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Agency/Organization Program Coordinator (A/OPC)</b>
- A Government employee responsible for the implementation and
execution of his/her agency/organization purchase card program in
accordance with established regulations, policies and procedures.
The A/OPC has overall administration to include developing and
implementing policy, establishing and making changes to accounts,
as well as training CHs and BOs. Multiple levels of A/OPCs exist at
different hierarchical levels within the program for each
agency/organization.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Assessable Unit Manager</b> - A Head of Activity
designated by the head of the reporting organization to provide
leadership and support needed to ensure that internal controls are
in place and operating effectively.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Average Days to Pay</b> - The average number of
calendar days between the billing cycle and when payment is
received by the issuing bank.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Billing Invoice</b> - The billing invoice
identifies all the purchase card transactions made by the CHs
assigned to a particular BO that are posted during a billing cycle.
The invoice can be paper-based or presented through the
bank’s EAS.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Billing Official (BO)</b> - A Government employee
who has been nominated by his or her activity/organization to have
oversight responsibility over the CHs assigned to his or her
managing account. See section 2-6. for a summary of BO duties.
Installation, unit, and local Heads of Activities or their
designees nominates individuals from their organizations as BOs.
The nominating official must be in the supervisory chain of the
individual being nominated. Issuing appointments to BOs may be
re-delegated in writing to the A/OPC. The BO is at Level 5 in the
GPC reporting hierarchy.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Bulk Funding Method</b> - The bulk funding method
requires posting specific funds to the official accounting records
prior to payment of a CH's account. Bulk funding may be made as
appropriate to the funding environment of the activity.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Cardholder (CH)</b> - An individual designated by
an agency/organization to be issued a card. The card bears the
individual’s name and can be used only by that individual for
official purchases in compliance with agency internal procedures.
The term “CH” also applies to checkwriters on
convenience check accounts. CHs are responsible for the timely and
accurate processing of monthly CH statements and maintaining a
purchase log or the servicing bank’s automated system to
record purchases. CHs must adequately control access to the card to
preclude unauthorized use and take timely and proper action when
unauthorized charges occur. Installation, unit, and local Heads of
Activities or their designees nominates individuals from their
organizations as CHs. The nominating official must be in the
supervisory chain of the individual being nominated. Issuing
delegations of authority to CHs may be re- delegated in writing to
the A/OPC. The CH is at Level 6 in the GPC reporting hierarchy.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Cardholder Statement</b> - The statement of charges
provided to a CH detailing all the transactions posted to his or
her account during a billing cycle.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Certifying Officer</b> - Certain Government
employees (Resource Managers, Billing Officials) are held
accountable for Federal Payments responsible to verify that
payments made by the Federal Government are legal, proper and
correct. Certifying officers are responsible for the accuracy and
legality of the payments made from Federal funds that they approve
(31 USC 3528). Certifying Officers review payment vouchers before
certification to ensure that the information on the vouchers agrees
with all supporting documentation. See DoD FMR Volume 5, Chapter
330308 A.2.c. For GPC purposes, certifying officer and certifying
official are synonymous.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Computer Hardware, Enterprise Software and Solutions
(CHESS)</b> - The CHESS program is the Army's mandatory source
for commercial information technology (IT) hardware and
software.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Computer/Electronic Accommodations Program
(CAP)</b> - A centrally funded program that provides
ergonomic-related and low-vision equipment for all DoD
employees.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Contract Action Report (CAR)</b> - Form used to
report contract actions on the FPDS-NG web site.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Convenience Checks</b> - Third-party drafts issued
using the GPC account. Third-party drafts may be used to acquire
and pay for supplies or services.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Delegation of Procurement Authority Letter</b> - A
document issued giving an individual procurement authority to use
the GPC. This delegation of procurement authority specifies the
single-purchase and monthly purchase limitations unique to that
CH.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Delinquency</b> - An undisputed charge card account
balance that is unpaid for more than 61 days past the statement
date. This category is not reportable to OMB.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Departmental Accountable Official (DAO)</b> - A
member of DoD, military or civilian personnel, designated in
writing and not otherwise accountable under applicable law, who
provides source information, data, or service (such as an RO, a CH,
and an Automated Information System Administrator) to a reviewing
or disbursing official in support of the payment process. The AO
has pecuniary liability for erroneous payments resulting from
his/her negligent actions.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Direct-Hire -</b> Authorities: 5 USC 3304 and 5 CFR
Part 337, Subpart B Using OPM–approved governmentwide or
agency specific direct-hire authorities, agencies may appoint
candidates to positions without regard to the requirements in title
5 USC 3309 through 3318. For an agency to use direct hire, OPM must
determine that there is either a severe shortage of candidates or a
critical hiring need for a position or group of positions.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">E-Commerce Platforms</b> - Also referred to as
e-marketplace platforms or commercial online platforms. Web-based
offerings that provide a managed channel for open-market purchases.
Examples of non- DoD e-commerce platforms include GSA’s
Commercial Platforms program (participating platforms currently
include Amazon Business.com, FisherSci.com, and
OverstockGovenment.com) and AmazonBusiness.com (separate and
distinct from AmazonBusiness.com participating in GSA’s
Commercial Platforms program).</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Electronic Access System (EAS)</b> - A web-based
computer system required by the task order with the issuing bank
for account set-up, maintenance, reporting, and electronic bill
presentment and certification.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Electronic data interchange (EDI)</b> - The
automatic process of receiving electronic obligation and invoice
records directly from the servicing bank into a DoD accounting
system.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Erroneous Payment</b> - Illegal, improper, or
incorrect payment. DoD FMR Vol. 5 Ch. 33 paragraph 330903.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">External Fraud</b> - Any felonious act of
corruption or attempt to cheat the Government or corrupt the
Government’s agents by someone other than Government Charge
Card Program officials. This category is classified as Malicious
Intent. It is not reportable to OMB.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Federal Procurement Data System Next Generation
(FPDS-NG) -</b> A computer-based Federal Procurement Data
System for collecting, developing and disseminating procurement
data to the Congress, Executive Branch and private sector in
compliance with 41 USC 1101 et seq. and FAR Subpart 4.6. The data
is used to measure and assess the impact of Federal procurement on
the nation’s economy, the extent to which awards are made to
businesses in the various socio-economic categories, the impact of
full and open competition on the acquisition process and other
procurement policy purposes. The Office of Federal Procurement
Policy (OFPP) requires that each Department and Agency certify
annually that all data within FPDS-NG is valid and complete.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Fraud</b> - Any intentional deception designed to
deprive the Government unlawfully of something of value or to
secure from the Government for an individual a benefit, privilege,
allowance, or consideration to which he or she is not entitled.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">General Fund Enterprise Business System (GFEBS)</b>
– DoD’s financial system. It is a web-enabled
enterprise resource planning (ERP) system allowing the U.S. Army to
share financial, asset and accounting data across the Service. The
system will standardize transactional input and business processes
across the Army to enable cost management activities; provide
accurate, reliable, and real- time data; and tie budgets to
execution. GFEBS moves the Army from a “spend and consume
culture” to a “cost and control culture” by
providing value-added, decision-support tools. GFEBS benefits the
Army by reducing and eliminating waste; reducing variation and
improving quality, and complying with regulatory and legislative
directives.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Hand Receipt Holder</b> - An individual responsible
for property listed on a signed document, thereby acknowledging
acceptance and responsibility for items therein.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Head of Activity (HA)</b> - The military officer in
command or the civilian executive in charge of the mission of a
command or activity. This individual has disciplinary authority
over CHs and BOs in his or her organization and is responsible for
having proper internal controls that deter fraud and ensuring that
those who violate the policies are properly sanctioned or
counseled.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Head of the Agency</b> - means, for DoD, the
Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Army, the Secretary of
the Navy, and the Secretary of the Air Force. Subject to the
direction of the Secretary of Defense, the Under Secretary of
Defense (Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics), and the Director
of Defense Procurement and Acquisition Policy, the directors of the
defense agencies have been delegated authority to act as head of
the agency for their respective agencies (i.e., to perform
functions under the FAR or DFARS reserved to a head of agency or
agency head), except for such actions that by terms of statute, or
any delegation, must be exercised within the Office of the
Secretary of Defense. (For emergency acquisition flexibilities, see
DFARS 218.270.) (DFARS 202.101 Definitions)</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Head of Contracting Activity</b> - The official who
has overall responsibility for managing the contracting activity,
including use of the GPC by personnel under his or her contracting
cognizance. (FAR 2.101) “Contracting activity" for DoD also
means an element of a Defense agency, designated by the Head of
Activity for that Defense agency that has been delegated
contracting authority through its agency charter. (FAR 2.101)</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Improper Purchase</b> – Reference: OMB
Circular A-123 Appendix B. An improper purchase is any purchase
that should not have been made or that was made in an incorrect
amount under statutory, contractual, administrative, or other
applicable requirements. Incorrect amounts include overcharges and
undercharges. An improper purchase can be one of two types -
unauthorized or incorrect:</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">1) <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Unauthorized purchases</b> consist
of items that are intentionally purchased and are outside of the
cardholder's purchasing authority.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">2) <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Incorrect purchases</b> are
mistakes that are the result of an unintentional error during the
purchase process. A series of seemingly incorrect purchases may
require additional scrutiny to determine whether these purchases
are actually unauthorized purchases.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Inter/Intra-Governmental Transaction (IGT)
–</b> Transactions or payments between different federal
agencies (inter-governmental) or within the same agency
(intra-governmental). In most instances, these transactions are
classified under Merchant Category Code 9399, Miscellaneous
Government Services.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Internal Fraud</b> - Any felonious act of
corruption or attempt to cheat the Government or corrupt the
Government’s agents by Government Charge Card officials. Use
of the GPC to transact business that is not sanctioned, not
authorized, not in one’s official government capacity, not
for the purpose for which the card was issued, and/or not as part
of official government business. This category is reportable to OMB
and classified as Malicious Intent.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Javits-Wagner-O’Day (JWOD Act)</b> - A law
that establishes as an independent federal entity the Committee for
Purchase From People Who Are Blind or People With Other Significant
Disabilities. It establishes mandatory sources for supplies and
services, administered by the Committee for Purchase from People
Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled. Two national, independent
organizations, National Industries for the Blind (NIB) and National
Institute for the Severely Handicapped (NISH), help state and
private nonprofit agencies participate in the AbilityOne
Program.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Merchant Category Code (MCC)</b> - A code used by
the merchant (vendor’s bank) bank to categorize each merchant
according to the type of business in which the merchant is engaged
and the kinds of goods and services provided. MCC codes are used as
authorized-transaction-type codes on a card/account to identify
authorized types of businesses from which purchases may be made
with the GPC. DPCAP maintains the list of DoD-wide blocked codes.
The Army Level 2 A/OPC is responsible to administer and record any
waiver requests to these blocks.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Misuse</b> - Unintentional use of the GPC in
violation of the FAR, DFARS, Agency supplements, or Agency
policies/procedures. These actions are the result of ignorance
and/or carelessness, lacking intent. This category is reportable to
OMB and classified as Unintentional.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">OCONUS</b> - <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Outside the Continental United
States (OCONUS)</i> - Any area beyond the 48 contiguous States and
the District of Columbia, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">i.e.,</i> CONUS. OCONUS is further
divided into foreign areas and non- foreign areas:</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">1) Foreign area - Any area situated beyond both
the CONUS and the non-foreign areas.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">2) Non-foreign area - The states of Alaska and
Hawaii, the Commonwealths of Puerto Rico and the Northern Mariana
Islands, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and the territories and
possessions of the United States.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Packing List/Slip -</b> (also known as a bill of
sale, unpacking note, packaging slip, (delivery) docket, delivery
list), is a shipping document that accompanies delivery packages,
usually inside an attached shipping pouch or inside the package
itself. It commonly includes an itemized detail of the package
contents and does not include customer pricing. It serves to inform
all parties, including transport agencies, Government authorities,
and customers, about the contents of the package. It helps them
deal with the package accordingly.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Pre-Purchase Approval</b> - When required and
identified by Army or local procedures, documentation showing
authority has been obtained to purchase special-use items such as
IT or hazardous material.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Prompt Payment Act</b> - A law that requires prompt
payment of invoices (billing statements) within 30 days of receipt
(FAR Clause 52.232-25, Prompt Payment, (May 1997)). An automatic
interest penalty is required if payment is not timely.</p><p class="- topic/p ">

        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Receipt</b> - A receipt is a written record of a
transaction documenting proof of payment. The receipt acts as the
title to the property obtained in the exchange. A receipt is a
legal document which serves as a permanent record of the
transaction that can be used to support financial records (i.e.,
billing official invoice). Internet shopping has led to the
creation of <xref format="html" href="http://www.wisegeek.com/what-is-electronic-cash.htm" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">electronic</xref>
receipts. Many online businesses provide the cardholder with the
option of printing a receipt of the transaction as soon as the
payment is approved. In addition, the vendor may provide the
cardholder with an <xref format="html" href="http://www.wisegeek.com/what-is-email.htm" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">email</xref> copy of
the receipt. The receipt includes basic information about the
nature of the sale. This essential detail includes the date of the
transaction, a list of the prices of the items purchased, subtotal,
applicable taxes, and a final total.</p><p class="- topic/p ">Some receipts will provide unit prices and extended prices when
multiple units of the same item are purchased, as well as a
detailed description of each item.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Required or Mandatory Sources of Supply</b> - The
priority of sources is dictated by FAR Part 8, Required Sources of
Supplies and Services, Subpart 8.001, Priorities for Use of
Government Supply Sources, and DFARS 208. Mandatory sources must be
considered before an open-market source can be considered. Other
mandatory sources include DLA Printing Services, Army CHESS, Army
BPAs.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Resource Manager (RM)</b> - RM is a Certifying
Officer who certifies that funds are available for the GPC program
and establishes lines of accounting used on the GPC program. The RM
is responsible for the proper assignment of funding on an
obligation document before the obligation is incurred, and for
maintaining a system of positive funds control.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Split Purchase</b> - Occurs when a CH splits a
known requirement at the time of the purchase into several
transactions to circumvent dollar thresholds in order to use the
GPC; to avoid competitive bids for purchases over the MPT; or to
avoid other established credit limits (this is prohibited). When a
known small purchase requirement exceeds the MPT, it must be
purchased through a contract using simplified acquisition
procedures.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Third-party Payments</b> – An online payment
processor (e.g., PayPal, Square) provides ways for a merchant to
accept credit cards and other payments online without the extra
cost and obligation of a merchant account. Where it is identified
that a purchase will be processed via a third-party merchant (i.e.
PayPal), the CH should make every attempt to choose another
merchant with whom to procure the goods and/or services. If still
found necessary to procure using a third-party payment merchant,
the CH and BO must ensure there is adequate supporting
documentation to prove that there was a detailed review of the
purchase and that the use of the third-party payment merchant was
unavoidable.</p><p class="- topic/p ">Transactions made with a third-party payment merchant are
considered high risk for both subsequent audit and data mining
screening.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Third-Party E-Commerce Merchants</b> –
Third-party merchants are entities that fulfill orders on e-
commerce platforms who are NOT the platform providers themselves.
These individual merchants might offer products for sale on various
online marketplaces, such as AmazonBusiness.com.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Third-Party Payment Processors</b> –
Commercial financial service providers offering on-line payment
solutions for commercial transactions. These processors own
merchant accounts that allow them to accept and process purchase
card payments on behalf of merchants who provide supplies and
services. Many merchants choose to utilize third party payment
processors to accept payments without having to establish a
merchant account through a merchant bank. Examples include PayPal,
Venmo, or Square.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Training – Commercial Off-the-Shelf
Training</b> - is defined as training products and services
regularly available to the public and/or Government personnel. The
term includes training offered in catalogs or other printed
material by a college, university, professional association,
consultant firm or organization. It does not include training
specifically developed, designed, and produced to meet requirements
unique to an organization and/or program. <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Non-Government
training</b> sources include, but are not limited to:</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">1) State government or instrumentality;</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">2) Interstate government organization;</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">3) Medical, scientific, technical, educational,
research, or professional institutions, foundations or
organizations; and,</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">4) Universities, technical, business, and
vocational schools<b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">,</b> business, commercial, or
industrial firms, corporations, partnerships, proprietorships, or
other organizations.</p><p class="- topic/p ">
        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">United States</b> - The 50 States and the District
of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands,
the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, American
Samoa, Wake Island, Johnston Island, Canton Island, the outer
Continental Shelf lands, and any other place subject to the
jurisdiction of the United States (but not including leased
bases).</p></conbody></concept>