<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_11-11">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">11-11.</ph> Reporting and Monitoring for
Fraud</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. <b>Reports for Identifying and Preventing
Fraud</b>. A/OPCs should use the following reports to identify
potential card misuse and fraud and to prevent fraud from
occurring:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) <b>Declined Transaction Authorizations
Report</b>. This report identifies cardholders who have
attempted to use an account to buy an item for which they are not
authorized, that exceeds their single purchase limit, that exceeds
their monthly purchase limit, or from a merchant that falls under a
blocked MCC.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) <b>Transaction Detail Report</b>.
This report identifies the date, merchant, reason code, dollar
amount, and status of each dispute filed by CH. BOs and A/OPCs
should track and follow up on disputes to determine their outcomes.
Cardholders should attempt to resolve disputes directly with
merchants prior to filing a disputes report. If a merchant is
consistently appearing on the disputes report, the A/OPC should
determine whether the merchant may have billing issues, quality
issues, or is attempting to commit fraud by submitting false
transactions.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) <b>Unusual Spending Activity
Report</b>. This report identifies transactions that may
warrant further review.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) <b>Account Status Change Report.</b>
This report lists accounts with a change status of lost/stolen,
closed, or reopened accounts. This status may either be an
indicator that the CH needs to secure the account or that the CH is
attempting to disguise misuse or fraudulent activity by denying the
charges.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>Reporting Fraud</b>. All
identified instances of suspected fraud or abuse must be reported.
Various channels of reporting include the Chain of Command, the
A/OPC, the command’s procurement fraud advisor (Staff/Command
Judge Advocate), the servicing Criminal Investigation Division
office, internal review organizations, and Inspector Generals at
all levels. Notify the CH’s commander or second-line
supervisor, as appropriate, and security manager when a Defense
criminal investigative organization or Defense organizational
element responsible for investigating potential misconduct
involving the GPC initiates an investigation into allegations of
charge card violations. Whenever possible, this notification should
take place within 72 hours of the initiation. See DoD Charge Card
Guidebook A.1.11.</p>
        <p id="_11-11._Violation_and_Disciplinary_Catego">
          <b>11-12. Violation and Disciplinary
Categories</b>
        </p>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. <b>Identifying the Violation</b>.
DoD’s <xref format="html" href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/policy/policyvault/Final_GPC_Disciplinary_Category_Definitions_Guidance_Jan_27_2020.pdf" scope="external">
            <u>GPC
Disciplinary Category Definitions Guidance</u>
          </xref> is a helpful
resource when identifying the type of violation.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. A/OPCs should be alert to the following
indicators of possible fraud, waste, or abuse:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Repetitive buys from the same merchant</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Lack of documentation for a purchase</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Failure to safeguard cards and account
numbers</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) CH or BO authorizing the use of their cards by
others</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">5) Inadequate oversight by BOs and agencies</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">6) Payments made for items not received</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">7) Split purchases to avoid spending
limitations</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">8) Lack of accounting for items requiring
accountability</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">9) Payment delinquencies incurring interest
penalties</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">10) Approval of a CH’s statement of account
by someone other than the CH or BO</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">11) Unauthorized purchases</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">12) CHs returning merchandise for cash or store
credit vs. having credits issued back to the GPC</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>Taking Corrective Action</b>. When
an A/OPC discovers a violation of GPC policies, the A/OPC must take
corrective action. The course of action will vary depending on the
intentionality and severity of the infraction. A/OPCs should take
one or more of the following corrective actions:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Document the purchase violation in IOD and the
purchase file.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Require involved parties to attend
training.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Inform the involved parties’ supervisor
or commander.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) Suspend CH or BO account.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">5) Terminate CH or BO appointment and account.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>Continual or Severe
Violations</b>. Continual violation of GPC procedures by a CH
or BO will result in termination of GPC privileges. A/OPCs will
document the violation and action taken in their files for that
particular CH/BO. A/OPCs will refer evidence of deliberate abuse to
the CH and/or BO’s supervisor, Commander, or SCO for
appropriate action in accordance with the Uniform Code of Military
Justice or civilian disciplinary rules. A/OPCs will refer evidence
of internal fraud or other criminal activity to the Commander or
SCO.</p>
        <p id="Table_11-4_Disciplinary_Categories"/>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. Any misuse of the GPC is subject to criminal,
civil, Uniform Code of Military Justice, administrative, and
disciplinary actions as appropriate. See below Table 11-6 for
details. The Offenses and Penalties table in AR 690-752 is intended
for use as a guide for selecting an appropriate penalty for
infractions committed by civilian employees as it may not
effectively address all situations. This table does not substitute
for independent supervisory judgment and does not dictate
penalties. A supervisor may choose the severity of action ranging
from no penalty, informal disciplinary actions, to the maximum
penalty of removal.</p>
        <p id="Table_11-5_Offenses_and_Penalties_Guida">Table 11-6: Offenses and Penalties
Guidance</p>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="4">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.7*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="0.6*"/>
            <colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" colwidth="0.8*"/>
            <colspec colname="col4" colnum="4" colwidth="0.8*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>Offense for Misuse of Government Charge Card</entry>
                <entry>First Offense</entry>
                <entry>Second Offense</entry>
                <entry>Third Offense</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <p>Misuse of Government Travel Charge Card or Purchase Charge Card
(for example, use for unauthorized personal expenses, failure to
pay charge card bill in a timely manner, failure to properly
safeguard the card or failure to use card for required expenses
arising from official travel. Use of the Travel Charge Card at
establishments or for purposes that are</p>
                  <p>inconsistent with the official business of DoD, the Army, or
applicable regulations).</p>
                </entry>
                <entry>Written reprimand to removal</entry>
                <entry>5-day suspension to removal</entry>
                <entry>10-day suspension to removal</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <p>Unauthorized use, failure to appropriately control or safeguard
the use of a Government Purchase Card as a card</p>
                  <p>holder or approving official responsible for use or oversight of
the purchase card.</p>
                </entry>
                <entry>Written reprimand to removal</entry>
                <entry>14-day suspension to removal</entry>
                <entry>Removal</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </conbody>
    </concept>