<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_16-3">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">16-3.</ph> Approved Exceptions</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. Purchases of explosives, toxins, and ammunition
are authorized only after JPEO-A&amp;A has authorized an exception.
This specifically includes small arms, explosives, weapon parts,
accessories, and ammunition. Each exception is approved on a
case-by-case basis by JPEO A&amp;A and ODASA(P) CPM.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. Waiver requests may be submitted to JPEO
A&amp;A via use of the <xref format="html" href="https://armyeitaas.sharepoint-mil.us/:b:/r/sites/ASA-ALT-PAM/Documents/Ammo%20GPC%20Waiver%20Endorsement%20Review%20Sheet.pdf" scope="external">JPEO
A&amp;A Waiver Request Checklist</xref> along with the supporting
documentation identified below. Forward the waiver request and
supporting documentation to your Level 4 A/OPC.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Justification for Waiver and Mission
Requirements stated in a signed memorandum on the requesting
organization’s official letterhead</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Internal Controls (safe storage)</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Ammunition Storage License</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) Accountability Processes</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">5) Funding Type (NAF or PAA only)</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">6) Legal review</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. The Level 4 A/OPC will submit the completed
request packet to the Level 3 A/OPC for submission to JPEO-A&amp;A
and the Army GPC CPM for review/approval.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. JPEO-A&amp;A provides a recommendation to
concur or non-concur with the waiver request to the ODASA(P) CPM.
If JPEO-A&amp;A concurs with the request and the request justifies
inclusion in the AFARS Appendix EE list of approved exceptions to
policy, the ODASA(P) will approve the waiver request. If
JPEO-A&amp;A non-concurs with the waiver request, JPEO-A&amp;A will
return the request with a non-concurrence to the requesting
organization. If the waiver request is approved by the ODASA(P),
the activity will be authorized the exception to policy in
compliance with Army policy.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. A dedicated GPC is mandatory for such approved
exceptions to policy. The dedicated GPC will be identified by a
third line embossing as “AMMO,” providing transparent
identification for ammunition purchases via GPC for Army reporting
purposes.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>