<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_3-10">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">3-10.</ph> Wide Area Workflow (WAWF)</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. WAWF is an application in the PIEE eBusiness
Suite used by contractors to invoice and by Government officials to
accept and certify for goods and services. Contractors must submit
contract invoices electronically, mandated by Public Law: Section
1008 of the NDAA of FY 2001. DFARS Clause 252.232-7003 (DFARS
232.7004) requires electronic invoicing and electronic supporting
documentation. WAWF allows vendors to submit and track invoices and
allows the Army to receive and accept those invoices over the Web,
enabling the Army to process those invoices in a real-time,
paperless environment. See paragraph 15-6 for more information.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>GPC Use of WAWF.</b> When the GPC
is used as the method of payment on a contract, the contractor must
create a receiving report in WAWF. The Government acceptor must
then accept the receiving report in WAWF.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. WAWF users must register in <xref format="html" href="https://piee.eb.mil" scope="external">
            <u>PIEE</u>

          </xref> and request the
corresponding role. The contractor will request the
“Vendor” role, and the Government acceptor will request
the “Acceptor” role. Refer to the "Registration" link
on the PIEE home page and the Help button for details on
registering in WAWF. For more information, contact <xref format="html" href="http://www.dfas.mil/" scope="external">

            <u>DFAS Customer Service</u>:</xref>
1-800-756-4571. See <xref format="html" href="https://piee.eb.mil/xhtml/unauth/help/help.xhtml" scope="external">
            <u>PIEE
web-based training</u>
          </xref> for more information on the WAWF
module.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>