<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_13-4">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">13-4.</ph> Army GPC PMR Process</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. The Department of the Army, through the
ODASA(P), will establish, execute, and provide oversight of a
tiered GPC PMR program reviewing each contracting activity every
three years to achieve the following:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Assess, analyze, and communicate the health of
Army contracting to senior Army leadership.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Ensure management oversight and control of
contracting related issues.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Ensure compliance with Federal, Defense, and
Army acquisition regulations and policies.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) Provide best practices for the Army to enhance
the procurement process.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>Purpose and Objectives of
PMRs</b>.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Foster good stewardship of resources.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Improve processes.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Evaluate and strengthen internal controls.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) Assess and reduce risk.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">5) Ensure that agencies establish and maintain
internal controls to provide reasonable assurance the goals and
objectives of the purchase card program are being met, and
safeguards against fraudulent, improper, and abusive purchases are
adequate.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">6) Assess program results.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">7) Communicate results so systemic problems can be
identified and addressed.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">8) Implement Corrective Action Plans.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">9) Improve the performance and accountability of
the GPC program.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>Preparation for GPC PMRs</b>.
Reviewers should notify the activity being reviewed 30 days before
planned GPC PMR visits. The activity will provide the following in
advance: metrics, bank reports and IOD data mining reports,
completed GPC toolkit, specified statistics, copies of previous
reviews/corrective action plans, procurement authority, and
training materials. Additionally, the activity may request
additional areas of emphasis and assistance during the GPC PMR.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>Results of Procurement Management
Reviews</b>.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) The GPC Toolkit in PCF contains a Business
Intelligence Report which should be used to communicate the results
of the PMR. Reports of GPC PMR results will contain a risk
assessment, analysis of issues, commendations, observations,
findings, and recommendations as appropriate. Report findings must
be specific and include sufficient information to enable root cause
analysis. GPC PMR recommendations must be based on supported
findings and be actionable.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) The GPC contracting activity reviewed will
submit a Corrective Action Plan (CAP) within 30 business days of
report receipt. The reviewed activity must complete corrective
actions - if any - within the agreed timeframe, inform the GPC PMR
Team Lead of corrective actions taken, and request closure of the
CAP.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. <b>Annual Summary Health
Report</b>.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) HCAs will provide to the ODASA(P), an Annual
Summary Health Report for their organization to include copies of
all GPC PMR reports and associated analyses of subordinate
contracting offices GPC reviews no later than 31 October each
year.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) The ODASA(P) will provide an Annual Summary
Health Report to DASA(P) that presents a holistic assessment of
Army GPC contracting no later than 31 January each year.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>