<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_1-8">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">1-8.</ph> GPC Delegations of Authority and
Appointment Letters</title>
      <conbody>
        <p>The different types of delegation of authority appointments
identified in this section and Table 1-3 are available to CHs as
needed. Each authority has unique policies, procedures, training,
and oversight requirements. CHs must have the appropriate
designation in their JAM appointment in order to use the
corresponding purchasing authority. These appointments can only be
granted to individuals who have completed training commensurate
with their delegated authority.</p>
        <p id="Table_1-3_GPC_Delegation_of_Authority_a">Table 1-3: GPC Delegation of Authority and
Limits</p>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="5">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="0.2*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="0.7*"/>
            <colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colname="col4" colnum="4" colwidth="0.8*"/>
            <colspec colname="col5" colnum="5" colwidth="2.3*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <b>#</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Authority Type</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Delegation Authority</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Delegation Not to Exceed Limit</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Scope of Authority Limits</b>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>1</entry>
                <entry>Micro- Purchase CH</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>FAR 1.603-3(b) FAR 13.201</p>
                  <p>DFARS 201.603- 3(b)</p>
                </entry>
                <entry>$10,000</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>Grants authority to make authorized GPC purchases valued below
the MPT <b>using simplified acquisition procedures.</b>
(See FAR 2.101 “micro-purchase” definition.)</p>
                  <p>CHs who only have this designation do <b>not</b> have
the authority to place orders against any contract, including GSA
federal supply schedule (FSS) orders using GSA Advantage and orders
against FedMall contracts. CHs who will place orders against any
contract also require the</p>
                  <p>Contract Ordering Official CH designation in their
appointment.</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>2</entry>
                <entry>Micro- Purchase Convenience Check Writer</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>FAR 1.603-3(b) FAR 13.201</p>
                  <p>DFARS 201.603- 3(b)</p>
                </entry>
                <entry>$5,000</entry>
                <entry>Grants authority to make authorized convenience check purchases
valued below the MPT using simplified acquisition procedures. (See
FAR 2.101 “micro-purchase” definition.)</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>3</entry>
                <entry>Higher Education Micro- Purchase CH</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>FAR 1.603-3(b) FAR 13.201</p>
                  <p>DFARS 201.603- 3(b)</p>
                  <p>Class Deviation 2018-O0018</p>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>$10,000</p>
                  <p>but HCA determination can result in higher value (unlimited)</p>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>Grants authority to make authorized open market micro-purchases
using the GPC up to any applicable “Higher Education”
MPT. (See MPT definition at FAR 2.101 &amp; Class Deviation
2018-O0018.)</p>
                  <p>This authority is generally limited to $10,000, but FAR 2.101
MPT definition allows for higher threshold after appropriate HCA
determination.</p>
                  <p>Not for use to make payments against approved SF 182s.</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="5">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="0.2*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="0.7*"/>
            <colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colname="col4" colnum="4" colwidth="0.7*"/>
            <colspec colname="col5" colnum="5" colwidth="2.3*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <b>#</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Authority Type</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Delegation Authority</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Delegation Not to Exceed Limit</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Scope of Authority Limits</b>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>4</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>Micro- Purchase ETO</p>
                  <p>Cardholder and/or Check Writer</p>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>FAR 1.603-3(b) FAR 13.201 FAR 13.201(g)</p>
                  <p>DFARS 201.603- 3(b)</p>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>
                    <b>
ETO CH:</b>
                  </p>
                  <p>$20,000</p>
                  <p>Inside U.S.</p>
                  <p>$35,000</p>
                  <p>Outside U.S.</p>
                  <p>
                    <b>ETO
 Checkwriter:</b>
                  </p>
                  <p>$10,000</p>
                  <p>Inside U.S.</p>
                  <p>$17,500</p>
                  <p>Outside U.S.</p>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>Grants authority to make authorized open market micro-purchases
using the GPC up to the applicable “Contingency” MPT.
(See MPT definition at FAR 2.101.)</p>
                  <p>If intent to authorize CH to place orders against any contract,
a Contract Ordering Official CH designation is also required.</p>
                  <p>ETO Checkwriter limits are one half of ETO MPTs.</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>5</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>Warranted ETO</p>
                  <p>Contracting CH</p>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>FAR 1.603-3(a) FAR 2.101 MPT</p>
                  <p>FAR 2.101 SAT</p>
                  <p>DFARS 201.603- 3(b)</p>
                  <p>DFARS 213.301(3)</p>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>
$1,500,000</p>
                  <p>Outside the U.S.</p>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>Grants Contracting Officers supporting Contingency Operations
and Humanitarian and Peacekeeping Operations authority to make
authorized GPC purchases outside the U.S. as authorized in DFARS
213.301(3) for use outside the U.S. using simplified acquisition
procedures up to the applicable Simplified Acquisition Threshold
(SAT). (See FAR 2.101 definition of SAT.)</p>
                  <p>The GPC appointment letter may only be issued to individuals who
have previously been issued an SF 1402 delegating them authority
sufficient to serve as a Contingency Contracting Officer.</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>6</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>Contract Ordering Official CH</p>
                  <p>CHs who will place orders against any contract, including GSA
FSS orders on GSA</p>
                  <p>Advantage and FedMall contracts at any dollar level, require
this designation.</p>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>FAR 1.603-3(a) FAR 8.4</p>
                  <p>FAR 13.301(b) FAR 13.301(c)(2)</p>
                  <p>AFARS 5113.202- 90(c)</p>
                  <p>DPCAP JAM Role Descriptions Guide</p>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>Simplified Acquisition Threshold</p>
                  <p>$250,000 for CHs that are trained contracting professionals in
the contracting office (1102s)</p>
                  <p>$25,000 for CHs outside a contracting office</p>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>Grants authority to place and pay for authorized GPC purchases
against the following:</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">1) Orders from GSA federal supply schedule
contracts.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">2) Orders from FedMall contracts, Computer
Hardware Enterprise Software and Solutions (CHESS) IDIQ contracts,
Governmentwide acquisition, and multi- agency contracts.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">3) Blanket purchase agreements.</p>
                  <p outputclass="List2">4) Indefinite Delivery, Time-and-Material, or
Labor-Hour contracts that have firm fixed prices and pre-arranged
terms and conditions that were awarded by a warranted contracting
officer (KO) who designated the CH, to place orders. The KO is
responsible for performing oversight and reporting any concerns to
the A/OPC.</p>
                  <p>Contract Ordering Official training must be completed before
using this authority.</p>
                  <p>A/OPCs must ensure additional controls and oversight procedures
are in place before granting this authority.</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="5">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="0.2*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="0.7*"/>
            <colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colname="col4" colnum="4" colwidth="0.7*"/>
            <colspec colname="col5" colnum="5" colwidth="2.3*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <b>#</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Authority
Type</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Delegation Authority</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Delegation Not to Exceed Limit</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Scope of Authority Limits</b>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>7</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>Overseas Simplified</p>
                  <p>Acquisition CH</p>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>FAR 1.603-3(a)</p>
                  <p>for &gt; MPT</p>
                  <p>
FAR 1.603-3(b)</p>
                  <p>for &lt; MPT</p>
                  <p>DFARS 213.301(2)</p>
                </entry>
                <entry>$25,000</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>Grants authority to make authorized GPC purchases valued up to
$25,000 using</p>
                  <p>simplified acquisition procedures when the CH is outside the
U.S. for items/services to be used outside the U.S., and that
comply with the requirements of DFARS 213.301(2).</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>8</entry>
                <entry>Contract Payment Official CH</entry>
                <entry>FAR 13.301(c)(3)</entry>
                <entry>As specified in the delegation of authority letter and contract.
Not to exceed the KO’s warrant authority.</entry>
                <entry>Grants authority to make contract payments when authorized by
the contract terms and conditions.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>9</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>Miscellaneous Payments Official CH (SF-182</p>
                  <p>Training Payments)</p>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>DoD Charge Card Guidebook</p>
                  <p>DoD FMR Vol 10,</p>
                  <p>Ch. 12, Sec</p>
                  <p>120323</p>
                  <p>DoDI 1400.25</p>
                  <p>Volume 410</p>
                </entry>
                <entry>$25,000</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>Grants authority to make payments for commercial training
requests using the SF 182, valued at or below $25,000, in lieu of
an employee reimbursement by miscellaneous payment in accordance
with the procedures to directly pay the provider in DoD FMR Volume
10, Chapter 12, Section 120323, and DoDI 1400.25,</p>
                  <p>Volume 410.</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>10</entry>
                <entry>Inter/Intra- Govern- mental Payment Official CH</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>TFM Vol. I, Part 5, Ch 7000</p>
                  <p>DPCAP memo, “Guidance on the Implementation of Adjusted
Government Charge Card CH Special Designation Thresholds,”
dated Oct 6, 2020</p>
                </entry>
                <entry>
$10,000</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>Grants authority to make inter/intra-governmental transactions
(IGT) or payments to another Government entity in lieu of using a
Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request (MIPR).</p>
                  <p>Includes payments to:</p>
                  <p> DLA Document Services</p>
                  <p> Department of Agriculture offered training</p>
                  <p> FedMall GPC Requisitioning</p>
                  <p> GSA Global Supply requisitioning</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. <b>Micro-Purchase Cardholder</b>.
This authority allows CHs to use the GPC to buy commercially
available, fixed-price supplies and services to fulfill
mission-essential requirements. The maximum single transaction
dollar limit for stand-alone purchases is the MPT as defined at FAR
2.101.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>Micro-Purchase Convenience Check
Writer</b>. This authority allows CHs to use a GPC convenience
check to buy commercially available, fixed-price supplies and
services to fulfill mission- essential requirements. Since
convenience checks expose the Government to greater risk, CHs must
make every effort to use a GPC card before writing a check. CHs may
only use this authority when use</p>
        <p>of the GPC is not possible. All check purchases must be within
the applicable convenience check MPT. DoD FMR Volume 10, Chapter 23
establishes the financial management policy for convenience check
accounts.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>Micro-Purchase Emergency-Type
Operations (ETO) CH and/or Check Writer</b>. This authority
allows CHs to buy commercially available, fixed-price supplies and
services to fulfill mission-essential requirements in direct
support of a declared contingency or emergency event. The ETOs
currently included in 41 USC 1903 are:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Contingency Operations as defined in FAR
2.101;</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Operations to facilitate the defense against or
recovery from cyber, nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological
attack against the United States as addressed in FAR 18.001;</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Operations in support of a request from the
Secretary of State or the Administrator of the United States Agency
for International Development to facilitate the provision of
international disaster assistance as addressed in FAR 18.001;
and</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) Operations to support response to an emergency
or major disaster as defined in Section 102 of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 USC
5121</p>
        <p>,</p>
        <p>
implemented in

FAR 26.2). </p>
        <p id="_2rrrqc1">The group term “ETO” also includes humanitarian or
peacekeeping operations (as defined in FAR 2.101). Currently, when
supporting humanitarian or peacekeeping operations in accordance
with FAR 2.101, the MPT does not increase, regardless of whether
the humanitarian or peacekeeping operation is taking place inside
or outside the United States; and the SAT can increase to $500,000
upon determination by the HCA that the respective supplies or
services directly support the humanitarian or peacekeeping
operation. FAR 18.2 addresses Emergency Acquisition Flexibilities
(EAFs). It is critical to verify whether increased EAFs have been
authorized for the particular ETO being supported. If so, each HCA
has the authority to authorize use of EAFs. </p>
        <p id="Table_1-4_Emergency-Type_Operations" outputclass="List1">d. <b>Warranted
Overseas ETO Cardholder.</b> This authority allows CHs to use
the GPC in conjunction with their separately issued SF 1402
Certificate of Appointment to purchase supplies and services as
prescribed in DFARS 213.301(3). Contracting officers may use this
authority to make purchases up to the applicable simplified
acquisition threshold in support of declared contingency or
emergency events.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. <b>Contract Ordering Official.</b>
This authority allows CHs with the appropriate training to issue
fixed- price orders against existing contracts (e.g., GSA FSS,
BPAs, FedMall contracts, CHESS contracts) to fulfill
mission-essential requirements for supplies and services valued up
to the Contract Ordering Official single purchase limit and to use
the GPC to pay for these orders/purchases. When using this
authority, CHs must 1) ensure they are authorized to place orders
by the contract terms and conditions, 2) ensure the order will
comply with all the contracts terms and conditions, and 3) follow
all applicable ordering procedures. When ordering above the MPT, CH
should obtain pricing from small business when small business can
meet the requirements. The CH should obtain quotes from at least
three sources. If restricting competition to fewer than three
sources, the CH should document the circumstances in the purchase
file. CHs with this designation will be referred to as
“Ordering Officials” throughout this document. The <xref format="html" href="https://armyeitaas.sharepoint-mil.us/:b:/r/sites/ASA-ALT-PAM/Documents/Army%20Ordering%20Officer%20Guide%20v.1%20(Feb%202024).pdf" scope="external">Army
Ordering Officer Guide</xref> standardizes procedures for selecting,
appointing, and terminating ordering officers in accordance with
AFARS 5101.602-2-92 and provides guidance for appointed
individuals. This guide is to be utilized in conjunction with AFARS
Appendix EE.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">f. <b>Overseas Simplified
Acquisition</b>. This authority allows CHs to make authorized
GPC purchases up to a single purchase limit of $25,000 when the CH
is outside the U.S. for items/services to be used outside the U.S.,
and that comply with the requirements of DFARS 213.301(2). When
ordering above the MPT, the CH should obtain quotes from at least
three sources. If restricting consideration to fewer than three,
document the circumstances in the purchase file.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">g. <b>Contract Payment Official.</b>
This authority allows CHs to use the GPC to make payments against
contracts that have been signed by a Contracting Officer when the
GPC is named as the payment method. The GPC may provide a
streamlined way of paying for contracts when a contracting officer
determines the use of the GPC is in the best interest of the
Government (AFARS 5113.202-90(d)).</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">h. <b>Miscellaneous Payments Official (SF 182
Training Payments).</b> This authority allows CHs to make
payments for commercial training requests using the SF 182, valued
at or below $25,000 in accordance with the procedures to directly
pay the provider in DoD FMR Volume 10, Chapter 12, Section 120323,
and DoDI 1400.25, Volume 410a. The SF 182 or equivalent must be
completed prior to the training. When provided by a non-Government
source, the training must consist of a regularly scheduled,
commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) course, training conference, or
instructional service that is available to the public and priced
the same for everyone in the same category, e.g., price per
student, course, program, service, or training space.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">i. <b>Inter/Intra-Governmental Payment
Official.</b> This authority allows CHs to make payments to
another Federal Government entity in lieu of using a MIPR or
Inter-Governmental Payment and Collection (IPAC) in accordance with
the DoD FMR. This authority includes, but is not limited to,
payments to DLA Document Services, U.S. Department of Agriculture
(USDA)-offered training, GSA Global Supply, Commissary, and FedMall
GPC requisitioning. (Purchases from State and Local governments are
considered traditional open-market micro-purchases and therefore
are covered by the applicable authority listed above.) Special
requirements for this authority include the following:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) The not-to-exceed value is dictated by TFM
Volume 1, Part 5, Chapter 7000, Section 7055.20.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Federal Government entities must limit their
credit card collections so that individual transactions are no more
than $10,000, which is the daily GPC credit limit for third-party
purchases. The Treasury encourages use of IPAC for payments between
Federal Agencies, debit cards, Automated Clearing House (ACH)
debits/credits, and Fedwire transactions.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Card acceptance policies can be found in TFM
Volume I, Part 5, Chapter 7000, which addresses limitations on
credit card transactions.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) IGTs exceeding $10,000 must be made with an
alternative payment method (e.g., IPAC for payments between Federal
Agencies, debit cards, ACH debits/credits, and Fedwire
transactions).</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>