<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_6-5">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">6-5.</ph> Tax-Exempt Status</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. GSA SmartPay GPC accounts are centrally billed
accounts (CBAs) and, as such, should be exempt from state taxes.
See the <xref format="html" href="https://smartpay.gsa.gov/smarttax" scope="external">
            <u>GSA SmartPay
website</u>
          </xref> for state-specific information and forms.
Cardholders can download a copy of the specific State letter to
present to a vendor when the vendor is requesting a tax-exempt
certificate.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. GSA also provides tax exemption best practices
for GPC accounts under the heading “Purchase Account”
on the linked webpage. Additional information about State sales
taxes and CH best practices may be found in <xref format="html" href="https://smartpay.gsa.gov/policies-and-audits/smart-bulletins/020/" scope="external">GSA
Smart Bulletin #020</xref>.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. For purchases within the U.S., CHs are
responsible for notifying vendors of the tax exemption and ensuring
no sales tax is included in their purchase, except where
applicable. Cardholders must inform the merchant that the purchase
is for official U.S. Government purposes and, therefore, is not
subject to state or local sales tax. A/OPCs may request embossing
of the statement “U.S. GOVT TAX EXEMPT” when ordering a
GPC.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>Exceptions</b>. Some states (e.g.,
Hawaii, Illinois) levy a General Excise Tax (GET) on businesses
selling tangible personal property which is allowed to be passed on
to the Federal Government. Arizona levies a Transaction Privilege
Tax (TPT). CHs are required to pay the GET and TPT when applied to
a GPC purchase.</p>
        <p id="Table_6-3_Tax_Exemptions">Table 6-3: Tax Exemptions</p>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="0.8*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.2*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry nameend="col2" namest="col1">
                  <b>Federal Government Tax Exemption
Information</b>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <b>Tax Exempt</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Not Tax Exempt</b>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Sales Tax</entry>
                <entry>Certain federal and state excise taxes (e.g., Hawaii and
Illinois)</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Federal communications excise tax (FAR 29.203)</entry>
                <entry>Tax on labor for work that is performed in that state, e.g., New
Mexico Gross Receipts Tax (NMGRT).</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Federal highway vehicle users' tax (FAR 29.203)</entry>
                <entry>Commissary surcharges, because they are federally mandated.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry/>
                <entry>Foreign taxes on overseas purchases, unless foreign tax and
Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA) will specify.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry/>
                <entry>Fuel purchases</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry/>
                <entry>Arizona Transaction Privilege Tax</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </conbody>
    </concept>