<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_8-4">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">8-4.</ph> Tailored Training</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a.</p>
        <p>This category describes training in which the vendor is making
the course content and/or materials to be specific to the
requesting agency. Tailored training typically requires a detailed
Statement of Work (SOW) and review/acceptance of deliverable. The
following are indicators of tailored training:</p>
        <p/>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Creating a new training course. </p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Changing the content of an existing course to
make it agency-specific. </p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Adding terms and conditions to a regularly
scheduled, COTS training event. </p>
        <p/>
        <p>b.</p>
        <p>If the Government has a need for tailored training or tailored
training materials, the requirement must be forwarded to the
contracting office for procurement. (See DoDI 1400.25, Volume
410</p>
        <p>.</p>
        <p>) The GPC may be used as the payment method on the awarded
contract; see paragraphs 1-</p>
        <p>2.d.</p>
        <p>and 1-8.g. Cardholders cannot use the GPC as the procurement
method. </p>
        <p>c.</p>
        <p>
          <b>Non-Tailored</b>
        </p>
        <p>. Setting a date and time for a COTS class and/or offering a
COTS class on the installation is not considered tailored.</p>
        <p>C</p>
        <p>ardholders</p>
        <p>may use the GPC to purchase a course which was initially
developed for the organization/agency but is now being offered as a
COTS course. </p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>