<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_7-4">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">7-4.</ph> Refund Distribution</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. Refunds, also referred to as rebates, will be
distributed by the servicing bank via ACH (electronic funds
transfer) to DFAS approximately 25 days after the quarter end (Jan
25, Apr 25, Jul 25, Oct 25) and may be distributed/allocated at the
discretion of each Army Major command. Refunds must be utilized in
the fiscal year when the refund was received.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. The servicing bank will notify the GFEBS Level
2 Fund Center RM POCs by email with an attached spreadsheet
providing the total ACH amount of their Level 2 Fund Center refund.
POCs must be identified by the Level 2 Fund Center G8/Comptroller.
DFAS will be provided a spreadsheet which contains the refund
amounts for each Level 2 Fund Center.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. Level 2 Fund Centers must decide whether the
refund will be processed at their level or delegated to Level 3/4
Fund Centers, understanding it is their responsibility to monitor
all refunds and the subsequent clearing. Execution requires
entering FB65 in GFEBS and submitting Cash Collection Voucher
(DD1131) to DFAS-IN by the Level 2 RM POC within 30 days of the
servicing bank’s refund email notification. The Major
commands will make the determination as to how the refund will be
dispersed within their command (e.g., keep refunds at HQ or major
RM or disseminate to subordinate activities). GFEBS-SA to use Level
3 Headquarter Fund Centers to claim refund and distribute, if
desired, using Journal Voucher (JV) entry correction, t-code FV50,
which requires JV Workflow Approval.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. Detailed reporting by the servicing bank Total
Business Relationship (TBR) hierarchy will be provided to each
GFEBS Level 2 Fund Center RM POC as well as the normal distribution
process.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. DFAS will process the refund in ADS 5570 using
the GFEBS FB65 document number and summary LOA information provided
on the DD 1131, so collection is received via DCAS interface.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>