<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_6-1">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">6-1.</ph> Procurement Transactions</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. Purchases below the MPT are exempt from the
Competition in Contracting Act, Buy American Act, Economy Act,
Service Contract Labor Standards Act, Wage Rates Requirements Act,
and the Small Business Set-Aside Program. Nothing in this chapter
exempts a cardholder from using the proper contracting channels
when making purchases exceeding the MPT.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. Requiring activities must perform acquisition
planning to identify procurement needs; consider strategic sourcing
vehicles (e.g., BPAs, CHESS, GSA); and initiate procurement actions
with sufficient lead time to buy appropriate products at the right
price from the right suppliers in a timely manner. Requirements and
logistics personnel should avoid issuing requirements on an urgent
basis or with unrealistic delivery or performance schedules, since
it generally restricts competition and increases prices. Ordering
from existing contracts (e.g., BPAs, CHESS, or GSA FSS) can only be
done by an appointed ordering official, including purchases below
the MPT.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. Purchase requirements exceeding the MPTs, or
delegations of authority established in Tables 1-2 and 1-3 must be
referred to a contracting office. Splitting requirements into
smaller parts to avoid formal contracting procedures, competition
requirements, or to keep spending limitations under the MPT is
prohibited. The GPC may be used for non-personal recurring services
performed at regular intervals up the MPT. Recurring service
requirements estimated to exceed the MPT per FY must be directed to
the contracting office. There is no single source that states
contracts must be put in place for a recurring supply requirement
costing $10k or less per 12-month period. The contracting office
will determine if recurring supplies should be placed on a contract
or BPA.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. Cardholders must use the mandatory sources
identified in Chapter 9 before deciding to use commercial sources.
GPC micro-purchases should be distributed equitably among qualified
suppliers, with special consideration paid to supporting the
installation AbilityOne Base Supply Center, and local, small, and
small disadvantaged businesses.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. Cardholders are responsible for procuring green
products and services under the Green Procurement Program as
prescribed by Executive Order 13834 and by DoD and Army policies.
Green procurement applies to the purchase of recovered materials,
energy and water efficient products, alternative fuels and fuel
efficiency, bio-based products, non-ozone depleting substances,
environmentally preferable products and services, and toxic and
hazardous chemicals. The following are mandatory Green Procurement
purchases: paper, toner, office products, office recycle
containers, and office trash cans. The following are the only
exceptions to purchasing green products and services: the pricing
is considered unreasonable; item/service does not meet reasonable
standards; or item/service will not meet the time frame needed.
Exceptions must be documented. Recommended sources for green
products are AbilityOne, FedMall, and GSA Advantage.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">f. <b>OCONUS Units</b>. For the use of
the GPC outside the U.S., CHs must follow policy in accordance with
DFARS 213.301(2). To ensure the CH does not exceed $25,000 for
OCONUS purchases, the total purchase price must include the
currency conversion rate prior to making the purchase. If a CH
makes a purchase from an OCONUS location for use OCONUS and the
vendor location is CONUS, this would be considered a reach-back
purchase and the MPT for a reach-back purchase is $10,000. Any
reach- back purchase over $10,000 is subject to simplified
acquisition procedures and should be sent to the contracting office
for action.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">g. For purchases made in the Contiguous United
States (CONUS) for use overseas, the CH must contact their local
Director of Logistics Traffic Management Office for assistance
regarding transportation and packaging requirements and/or
instructions prior to contacting the vendor. CHs must ensure the
final price includes all costs associated with the mode of
transportation and packaging selected to the destination country,
customs import duties, and any other charges that may accrue. See
DoD Directive 4500.54-E, DoD Foreign Clearance Program for
compliance with host nation customs requirements.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">h. <b>OCONUS Value-Added Tax (VAT)
Forms</b>. The cost of the VAT can be charged on the GPC.
Cardholders must contact their A/OPC for local guidance and
procedures involving the use of the VAT form. To obtain a copy of
the form, CHs may contact the local Morale, Welfare and Recreation
(MWR) office.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">i. <b>Terms and Conditions</b>. Neither
cardholders nor billing officials have the authority to approve or
sign written vendor terms and conditions. Cardholders will consult
their A/OPC, contracting office, and/or local legal office for
additional guidance.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">j. <b>Convenience Check Accounts</b>.
The management controls, procedures, and restrictions included in
this regulation also apply to the use of convenience checking
accounts. Convenience checks are an alternative only when the GPC
is not feasible and the activity has evaluated all alternatives and
determined the checks as the most advantageous. Before a check is
issued, the requiring organization must document their effort to
find a merchant that accepts the GPC. Convenience checks must not
be used for more than one half of the MPT per Public Law 115-91.
Checkwriters who write checks over the convenience check MPT (see
Table 1-2) will have their convenience check account terminated.
See Chapter 10.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>