<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_8-7">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">8-7.</ph> Use of the GPC for Tuition
Assistance</title>
      <conbody>
        <p>a.</p>
        <p>
          <b>Military Tuition Assistance</b>
        </p>
        <p>. Cardholders may use the GPC as the payment method for military
tuition assistance invoices. DD Form 2171, Request for Tuition
Assistance (TA), provides financial assistance for voluntary
off-duty education programs in support of soldiers’
professional and personal self-development. Advance payments are
authorized under the TA Program in accordance with AR 621-5.
All</p>
        <p>course enrollments must be approved prior to</p>
        <p>start</p>
        <p>of class. Soldiers must request TA through the</p>
        <p>
          <xref format="html" href="https://www.armyignited.com/" scope="external">
            <u>ArmyIgnitED website</u>
          </xref>
        </p>
        <p>,</p>
        <p>prior to the course start date or before the school’s late
registration period. </p>
        <p/>
        <p/>
        <p outputclass="List1">b.</p>
        <p>
          <b>Air National Guard Tuition Assistance</b>
        </p>
        <p>. ANG TA funds are requested by the student using an AF Form
1227, Authority for Tuition Assistance - Education Services
Program. The AF Form 1227 must be used as an approval document,
which equates to a commitment, but not as an obligation document.
Only AF Form 1227s generated in the Air Force Virtual Education
Center (AFVEC) will be utilized for TA payments.</p>
        <p/>
        <p/>
        <p outputclass="List1">c.</p>
        <p>
          <b>Academic Degree Training</b>
        </p>
        <p>. Academic degree training is training or education with the
stated objective of obtaining an academic degree from an accredited
college or university. The academic degree</p>
        <p>
          <b>must</b>
        </p>
        <p>be related to the performance of the employee’s official
duties and part of a planned, systematic, and coordinated program
of professional development, endorsed by the Army that supports
organizational goals and</p>
        <p>results</p>
        <p>and the results are measurable in terms of individual and
organization performance.  See AR 350-1, section 4-17, for
requirements and limitations. </p>
        <p/>
        <p/>
        <p>d.</p>
        <p>Cardholders may use the GPC to pay for academic degree training
approved by the appropriate authority indicated in AR 350-1.
Academic degree training requests, regardless of funding source
(career program or command), require approval by the Assistant
Secretary of the Army (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) (ASA
(M&amp;RA)). This does not apply to employees in Army-sponsored
Intern or Fellows programs. Employees must not circumvent the
academic degree training approval and funding process by submitting
requests for the approval of individual college courses, annotating
that such training is not part of an academic degree training
program.</p>
        <p/>
      </conbody>
    </concept>