<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_3-9">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">3-9.</ph> Federal Procurement Data System –
Next Generation (FPDS-NG)</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. Army procedures must ensure compliance with
FPDS reporting requirements of <xref format="html" href="https://www.acquisition.gov/far/subpart-4.6" scope="external">FAR 4.6</xref>, <xref format="html" href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/dars/dfars/html/current/204_6.htm" scope="external">
            <u>DFARS
204.6</u>
          </xref>, and <xref format="html" href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/dars/pgi/pgi_htm/PGI204_6.htm" scope="external">DFARS
PGI 204.606</xref>. Open-market micro-purchases made with the GPC and
valued less than the MPT will not be reported to FPDS. See <xref format="html" href="https://www.acquisition.gov/far/4.606" scope="external">FAR 4.606(c)</xref> for a
list of additional actions that are not to be reported.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>Contract Payments</b>. Any
contract or order where the GPC is used solely as the method of
payment will be reported to FPDS individually regardless of dollar
value.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>Open Market</b>. Open-market
actions (i.e., order not under a federal contract or agreement)
purchased and paid for using the GPC will not be reported to FPDS,
except in accordance with FAR 4.606(a)(2). As a reminder, the GPC
may only be used for open market actions when the value of the
action is under or equal to the micro-purchase threshold as defined
in FAR 2.101.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>Contract Orders</b>. Contracting
offices will ensure all orders made by Contract Ordering Official
CHs are reported to FPDS, regardless of value, no less frequently
than monthly as required in DFARS PGI 204.606. For order actions
under federally awarded contracts (e.g., schedules, governmentwide
acquisition contracts, indefinite delivery contracts), blanket
purchase agreements, and basic ordering agreements:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Report all actions purchased and paid for using
the GPC to FPDS.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Report all actions valued $25,000 or more
individually; express reporting processes will not be used.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Report the actions valued less than $25,000 in
the following descending order of preference:</p>
        <p outputclass="List3">i. Individually, not using express reporting
procedures.</p>
        <p outputclass="List3">ii. Using express reporting procedures that
compile all actions monthly under the identified existing
contract/agreement (such as a specific schedule) and vendor.</p>
        <p outputclass="List3">iii. Using express reporting procedures that
compile all actions monthly without specifically identifying the
existing contract/agreement and vendor. Only use this alternative
when the first two choices are determined to be overly burdensome
by the HCA. When used, identify the vendor using the generic Unique
Entity ID (UEI) number for either domestic or foreign GPC
consolidated reporting. See GPC one-pager, <xref format="html" href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/asda/dpc/ce/pc/docs/training/3OP039_UEIs-for-GPC-Reporting.pptx" scope="external">Unique
Entity Identifiers for GPC Reporting to FPDS</xref>.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. Contracting offices are not required to
separately report to FPDS orders placed on FedMall.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">f. <xref format="html" href="https://www.acquisition.gov/far/4.606" scope="external">
            <u>FAR
4.606(a)(2)</u>
          </xref> states the GSA Office of Charge Card Management
will provide the GPC data at a minimum annually, and GSA will
incorporate that data into FPDS for reports. This does not result
in duplicative FPDS reporting of GPC transactions, as GSA has
confirmed it reports only high-level data (i.e., total numbers of
transactions and dollars) outside the FPDS database. FPDS-NG
access, training, and instruction manuals are available on
FPDS.gov.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>