<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_9-6">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">9-6.</ph> DLA Document Services</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. Cardholders will purchase print devices and
services from the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA). This requirement
applies to Unclassified and Secret-level printing devices (e.g.,
self-service office copiers and multi-functional devices, desktop
and stand-alone printers, and scanners) purchased or leased with
federal funds appropriated to the Army. This requirement also
applies to the following services:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Maintenance of installed Government-owned or
DLA-leased printing devices to include repairs.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Printing, scanning, and document conversion
(e.g., banners, decals, technical manuals), except for products
managed by the Army Print and Media Distribution Center (APMDC)
such as Army-wide publications.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. Cardholders must procure all printing
requirements that cannot be produced in-house using their
respective organizational printers from <xref format="html" href="https://www.dla.mil/Document-Services/" scope="external">DLA Document
Services</xref>. See DoDI 5330.03, Single Manager of DoD Document
Services, and Army CIO memorandum, “Army Procurement or Lease
of Printing Devices and Services,” dated 17 November 2023.
For CHs within the Washington DC metropolitan area, additional
mandatory printing requirements are located here: <xref format="html" href="https://armypubs.army.mil/Printing/printing.aspx" scope="external">
            <u>https://armypubs.army.mil/Printing/printing.aspx</u>.</xref>
        </p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. DLA will provide an exception to policy (ETP)
memo if the product is unavailable. ITAS approval is required prior
to the procurement of IT, including printing devices and services.
The requesting activity will attach the ETP memo to the ITAS
procurement request.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. GPC purchases from DLA Document Services are
considered IGT and are subject to the IGT payment limit of $10,000.
If transactions do not meet the DLA Document Services criteria,
activities will use other funding vehicles (e.g., DD Form 448,
MIPR, DD Form 282, DoD Printing Requisition/Order).</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. <b>Exemptions</b>. Products exempt
from this policy include items that are funded or procured with
non-Army funding and manufacturing equipment such as 3-D printers.
Also, the following organizations are exempt from the requirement
to buy print devices and services from DLA:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) US Army National Guard (ARNG) and US Army
Reserve (USAR)</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Army-wide departmental printing and Army
Headquarters printing services provided by the U.S. Army Print and
Media Distribution Center (APMDC)</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Army intelligence printers and services
acquired under the National Intelligence Program (NIP) or the
Military Intelligence Program (MIP)</p>
        <p id="Table_9-2_Mandatory_Sources_for_Certain"/>
        <p id="Toc174981124">
          <b>9-7.</b>
          <b>Clothing
&amp; Heraldry.</b>
        </p>

        <p>Flags, guidons, and streamers described in AR 840-10 will be
requisitioned from the U.S. Army Tank-Automotive and Armaments
Command, Clothing and Heraldry Office, Product Support Integration
Directorate, unless otherwise indicated. Stocked items are
available on FedMall. Stocked items include, but are not limited
to, national flags and general officer protocol flags. The Clothing
&amp; Heraldry Office does not provide stocked items. Requiring
activities will submit requests for flags, guidons, and streamers
at the following website: <xref format="html" href="https://heraldry.army.mil/" scope="external">https://heraldry.army.mil/</xref>.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>