<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_5-2">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">5-2.</ph> Account Establishment</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. GPCs are issued only as mission requirements
dictate. Only DoD civilian employees or members of the Armed Forces
may be issued a GPC or be appointed a BO. GPCs may not be issued to
contractor personnel, except as provided in paragraph 1-5d. Junior
Reserve Officer Training Corps (JROTC) instructors, Outside
Continental United States (OCONUS) local national employees of the
Army, and host Government direct-hires for OCONUS
agencies/organizations whose salaries are reimbursed by the Army or
DoD tenant organizations, are not considered DoD contractors, and
may be designated as CHs and BOs. Traditional National Guard
members and State employees are prohibited from being appointed as
a CH, BO or A/OPC. The following types of purchases require a
separate card account dedicated solely for that purpose:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Contract Payments</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Official Representation Funds (ORF)</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Ammunition</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) Gift Fund (for donated or proffered monies)</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">5) Lodging in Kind (LIK) and Subsistence in Kind
(SIK)</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>Card Account Limits</b>. Each card
account has a single purchase limit and a cycle or monthly limit.
In most cases, the single purchase limit is the micro-purchase
threshold. The cycle limit is determined by the anticipated
spending needs of the cardholder.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>Managing Account Limits</b>. Each
managing account has a cycle limit and a credit limit. The cycle
limit is the sum of the monthly limits of all cardholders under the
managing account. The credit limit is three times the managing
account’s cycle limit.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>Establishing Credit Limits</b>.
A/OPCs and RMs must jointly establish appropriate spending limits,
and MCC access tailored to each CH account and MA based on
historical buying patterns/trends, with consideration given to
future mission needs. Budgetary limits may equal but not exceed the
limits established in the CH appointment letter issued in JAM. The
bank’s EAS will maintain single purchase and monthly spending
limits and can restrict purchases to particular MCCs. These limits
may be initially established based on the CH’s delegation
authority and adjusted to meet budgetary constraints. The
procurement authority in the letter of delegation may never exceed
what is authorized by the FAR/DFARS (e.g., a CH with delegated
authority of $10,000 is still limited to $2,500 when purchasing
services subject to Service Contract Labor Standards (41 USC
Chapter 67)). The A/OPC will review individual CH spending limits
each year and coordinate with the BO and RM in the event adjustment
of spending limits as projected for the upcoming year is required.
A/OPCs must update the appointment in JAM before increasing credit
limits in the EAS. The A/OPC and the RM may make changes to the
purchase limits to meet mission requirements within the CH’s
authority.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>