<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_15-6" class="- topic/topic concept/concept "><title class="- topic/title "><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">15-6.</ph> Wide Area Workflow</title><conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody "><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">a. <xref format="html" href="https://www.acquisition.gov/dfars/part-232-contract-financing#DFARS_232.7002" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">DFARS 232.7002(a)(5)(b)(1)</xref> requires that only WAWF be used to create and accept receiving reports when the GPC is used as a method of payment against a contract. As specified in <xref format="html" href="https://www.acquisition.gov/dfarspgi/pgi-part-253-forms#DFARS_PGI_253.213-70" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">DFARS PGI 253.213-70</xref>, the code “CRCARD” must be used in the Pay Official / DoDAAC field for self-administered contracts to be paid in WAWF. Contracting Officers awarding contracts authorizing use of the GPC as a method of payment must ensure contractor compliance with the requirement for vendors to use WAWF to create and submit the receiving report in accordance with the <xref href="Appendix-EE_15-6.dita#AFARS_Appendix-EE_15-6" class="- topic/xref " outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">Prompt Payment Act</xref> requirement for written acceptance. These requirements are addressed in <xref format="html" href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/dars/dfars/html/current/232_70.htm#232.7002" scope="external" class="- topic/xref "> <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">DFARS 232.7002(a)(2)</u> </xref> and <xref format="html" href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/dars/dfars/html/current/232_70.htm#232.7003" scope="external" class="- topic/xref "> <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">232.7003(a)</u> </xref>, and <xref format="html" href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/dars/pgi/pgi_htm/PGI253_213.htm" scope="external" class="- topic/xref "> <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">DFARS PGI 253.213-70</u> </xref>.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">b. The Contracting Officer is responsible for
ensuring the WAWF clauses are included in the contract, the vendor
initiates the receiving report in WAWF, and the Government acceptor
documents acceptance in WAWF. The CH is required to verify
acceptance has occurred in WAWF prior to approving his/her billing
statement and sending it to the BO for approval and Certifying
Officer for certification. Contracting Officers <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">may
not</i>

          </b> specify the GPC as the method of payment when
contract administration functions will be performed by other than
the contracting organization (e.g., they will be assigned to DCMA),
because the contract administration office does not have insight
into contract delivery and payments. To ensure proper routing of
contracts paid with the GPC, contracts assigned to DCMA for
administration cannot cite the GPC as the method of payment. <xref format="html" href="https://www.acquisition.gov/dfarspgi/pgi-part-242-contract-administration#DFARS_PGI_PGI_242.002" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">DFARS
PGI 242.3</xref> requires that a valid payment office be designated
using the Contract Administration Services Directory (CASD). GPC is
not a valid CASD payment method.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">c. DFARS Appendix F contains procedures and
instructions for the use, preparation, and distribution of the WAWF
Receiving Report (RR) and commercial shipping/packing lists used to
document Government contract quality assurance. Preparation
instructions and training for the WAWF RR are available at <xref format="html" href="https://piee.eb.mil/" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">
            <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">PIEE</u>.</xref> The instructions on
preparing a WAWF RR are part of the Vendor Training section.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">d. On March 3, 2008, DoD issued a final rule
amending the DFARS to require use of WAWF as the only acceptable
electronic system for submitting requests for payment (invoices and
receiving reports) under DoD contracts.</p></conbody></concept>