<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_9-3">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">9-3.</ph> AbilityOne</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. Cardholders may purchase AbilityOne <xref format="html" href="https://www.abilityone.gov/procurement_list/index.html" scope="external">Procurement
List</xref> supplies directly from AbilityOne or from one of their
authorized distributors to satisfy the mandatory
requirement. CHs should first shop at their respective local
AbilityOne® Base Supply Center (BSC), where such stores exist.
AbilityOne profits are maximized for purchases made directly from
AbilityOne, such as a BSC or an AbilityOne online catalog. The
AbilityOne producing agency sells the supply at a set price (fair
market value). The distributor can sell the supply at varying
prices but is not allowed to sell below the fair market value.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. If FPI/UNICOR and AbilityOne participating
nonprofit agencies produce identical supplies or services,
FPI/UNICOR is the higher priority for supplies and AbilityOne is
the higher priority for services (FAR 8.603 and 8.002). Unlike
FPI/UNICOR procedures, AbilityOne purchasing procedures are
applicable to all purchases regardless of dollar value and do not
allow contracting officers to authorize purchase from an alternate
source. If the requirement can be fulfilled with an AbilityOne
product on the <xref format="html" href="https://www.abilityone.gov/procurement_list/index.html" scope="external">Procurement
List</xref>, the CH must purchase from FPI/UNICOR unless they receive
a waiver from FPI/UNICOR allowing them to purchase from
AbilityOne.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. Cardholders may request a waiver from
AbilityOne following the procedures at <xref format="html" href="https://www.abilityone.gov/laws,_regulations_and_policy/documents/US%20AbilityOne%20Commission%20Policy%2051%20541%20Requirement%20to%20Purchase%20PL%20Products%20Instead%20of%20Essentially%20the%20Same%20Final.pdf" scope="external">
            <u>AbilityOne’s
Policy 51.541</u>
          </xref>. Before AbilityOne approves any waiver
request, it can (1) review product information to ensure the
alternate product is essentially the same as the AbilityOne
product, and (2) offer a price match.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. AbilityOne purchasing procedures do not allow
contracting officers to authorize purchase from an alternate
source. Prices of items on the <xref format="html" href="https://www.abilityone.gov/procurement_list/index.html" scope="external">Procurement
List</xref> are fair market prices as established by AbilityOne (FAR
8.707). Purchase at these established prices is mandated without
further consideration of prices available from the private
sector.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. For units in Germany, Italy and the United
Kingdom, the preferred use policy for office supplies is through
the <xref format="html" href="https://kvg.com/pages/jose-program" scope="external">Joint Office
Supply Europe program (JOSE)</xref>. For information on JOSE,
cardholders may contact their A/OPC or view the <xref format="html" href="https://cdn.shopify.com/s/files/1/0665/3152/4922/files/JOSE_Preferred_Use_Memo_-_Joint_Signed.pdf" scope="external">JOSE
Preferred Use Policy for Office Supplies memorandum</xref>.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>