<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_11-1">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">11-1.</ph> Internal Controls</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. Effective internal controls are essential to
reducing the risk inherent in the Army GPC Program and maintaining
its integrity and accountability. Internal controls are necessary
to ensure the achievement of organizational objectives; operational
effectiveness and efficiency; reliable financial reporting; and
compliance with laws, regulations, and policies. The Army has
established a series of automated and manual internal controls and
oversight procedures designed to identify and mitigate risk,
document the effectiveness of controls, and provide data to
effectively target corrective actions where and when needed.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. A key portion of the automated oversight
process, the SAHAR, provides the HCA/SCO with a high-level summary
of the scope, internal control effectiveness, level of risk, and
corrective actions implemented or required across the Army GPC
program. One of the major strengths of these controls and
procedures is the aggressive inclusion of automation applied to
control points, data-mining, and reporting that enforce laws,
regulation, and policy, reducing the administrative cost of
effective oversight.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. Automation is incorporated in the
control/oversight/reporting process through several integrated
applications sharing data throughout the entire process, from
automated identity verification and supervisor approval in PIEE, to
training reports from DAU to PIEE, to JAM appointments with
purchase limitations communicated to the card-issuing bank for
account establishment, to transaction information data-mined in
IOD, and automated reporting across the entire scope of the
process. This extensive automation increases the efficiency,
accuracy, auditability, and reliability of the oversight process
and the integrity and safety of the GPC Program.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. GPC management officials are responsible for
establishing a process of internal controls that (1) provides
reasonable assurance that the GPC program is used efficiently,
effectively, and legally to help manage the program and reduce
violations; and (2) complies with applicable laws and regulations.
Management should periodically review their GPC program’s
internal controls and avail themselves of the Monthly A/OPC Review
and SAHAR reports, along with any other reports, to ensure the
internal controls covered in specified reports are being followed
and GPC program participants are performing responsibly.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>