<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_4-1">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">4-1.</ph> Mandatory Training</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. Prior to assuming their duties, program
personnel will complete the GPC training appropriate to their
position. The training requirements for CHs and BOs trained at a
previous duty station may be abbreviated or waived, in writing, as
determined by the A/OPC. Proof of training must be documented and
retained by the A/OPC. The local command may require additional
mandatory training to satisfy their training or operational
needs.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. PIEE/JAM is the mandatory electronic system for
documenting and retaining training records. PIEE includes
capabilities to track and report training course completion, issue
automatic training reminders for recurring requirements, and
systemically promote compliance with requirements to complete
training prior to appointment issuance. JAM system validations
prohibit appointment of individuals who, if required for their
roles, have not completed CLG 0010 and CLG 006. PIEE/JAM
automatically records completion of all required and recommended
DAU courses. When tracking training in JAM, users are not required
to manually load electronic copies (e.g., PDFs) of training
certificates for courses that automatically were recorded via the
DAU/PIEE system interface (i.e., DAU is listed as the
“Source”).</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. PIEE includes the capability for GPC program
participants to manually record completion of non-DAU training and
provide/maintain an electronic copy of training certificates. DoD
GPC One-Pagers 3OP010, Uploading Training Certificates to PIEE/JAM,
and 3OP038, Tracking Training in PIEE, provide details on these
training capabilities.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. Level 4 A/OPCs, in coordination with the
appropriate subject matter experts, will provide in-person initial
GPC training for all new BOs and CHs prior to using the GPC. Each
Level 4 A/OPC is responsible for providing training to CHs and BOs
utilizing the Army Master Training slides and GPC program
location-specific slides. Training methods can be classroom,
virtual or electronic.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. Resource Managers should assist the A/OPC in
developing or providing training on funding document maintenance,
Anti-Deficiency Act, and the certification and payment process.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">f. Small Business Specialists should assist the
A/OPC in developing or providing training on FAR 19, Small Business
procedures and achieving small business goals.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">g. Hazardous Materials Management Process Team
should assist the A/OPC in developing or providing training on the
procurement, maintenance, and disposal of hazardous materials.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">h. GPC training requirements are listed in Tables
4-1 and 4-2. Table 4-1 lists all mandatory training which must be
completed prior to issuance of an appointment letter and/or
establishment of a GPC account. Table 4-2 lists all recommended
training as necessary to carry out GPC duties. Proof of training
must be documented and retained by the A/OPC. CHs, BOs, and A/OPCs
are required to complete mandated initial and refresher training.
U.S. Bank’s Access Online web-based training is optional. The
initial in-person GPC training provided by the Level 4 A/OPC will
cover training on the use of U.S. Bank’s Access Online system
(e.g., initiating and resolving disputes, reconciling and approving
statements, certifying invoices, and uploading supporting
documentation).</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">i. <b>Refresher Training</b>. As
required in DoD FMR Volume 5, Chapter 5, Paragraph 050304,
appointed Certifying Officers must complete an approved Certifying
Officer Legislation training course before their appointment and as
refresher training annually. All A/OPCs, BOs, and CHs must complete
refresher training every two years. The local command may require
refresher training more frequently to satisfy their training or
operational needs. See <xref format="html" href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/asda/dpc/ce/pc/training.html" scope="external">
            <u>DPCAP’s
Purchase Cards - Training page</u>
          </xref> for GPC Program One-Pagers,
“quick start guides” that address various GPC policies
and systems, and other resources.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">j. By signing the appointment letter in JAM, CHs
and BOs confirm that they have received the initial GPC program
training and understand their roles and responsibilities and the
penalties associated with misuse of the card.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">k. Attendance at the annual GSA SmartPay
Conference is mandatory for all Level 3 and 4 A/OPCs, as funding
permits. Attendance is mandatory for all Level 3 and 4 A/OPCs if
the GSA SmartPay Conference is held virtually.</p>
        <p id="Table_4-1_Mandatory_Training_for_A_OPCs">Table 4-1: Mandatory Training for A/OPCs,
Billing Officials and Cardholders</p>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="5">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.2*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="0.6*"/>
            <colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" colwidth="0.6*"/>
            <colspec colname="col4" colnum="4" colwidth="0.7*"/>
            <colspec colname="col5" colnum="5" colwidth="1.7*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry nameend="col5" namest="col1">
                  <b>Mandatory Training</b>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <b>Course Name</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Course Number</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Role Level</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Frequency</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Course Offeror/ Hyperlink</b>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>DoD Government-wide Commercial Purchase Card Overview</entry>
                <entry>CLG 0010</entry>
                <entry>All</entry>
                <entry>Initial/ Biennial</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>DAU</p>
                  <p>
                    <xref format="html" href="https://icatalog.dau.edu/onlinecatalog/courses.aspx?crs_id=12372" scope="external">
                      <u>CLG
0010 DoD Governmentwide</u>
                    </xref>
                    <xref format="html" href="https://icatalog.dau.edu/onlinecatalog/courses.aspx?crs_id=12372" scope="external">
                      <u>Commercial
Purchase Card</u>
                    </xref>
                  </p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Certifying Officer Training for GPC Payments</entry>
                <entry>CLG 006</entry>
                <entry>A/BOs</entry>
                <entry>Annual</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>DAU</p>
                  <p>
                    <xref format="html" href="https://icatalog.dau.edu/onlinecatalog/courses.aspx?crs_id=2057" scope="external">
                      <u>CLG
006 Certifying Officer</u>
                    </xref>
                    <xref format="html" href="https://icatalog.dau.edu/onlinecatalog/courses.aspx?crs_id=2057" scope="external">
                      <u>Legislation
Training</u>
                    </xref>
                  </p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Overview of Acquisition Ethics</entry>
                <entry>ACQ 0030</entry>
                <entry>All</entry>
                <entry>Initial</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>DAU</p>
                  <p>
                    <xref format="html" href="https://icatalog.dau.edu/onlinecatalog/courses.aspx?crs_id=12650" scope="external">
                      <u>ACQ
0030 Overview of Acquisition</u>
                    </xref>
                    <xref format="html" href="https://icatalog.dau.edu/onlinecatalog/courses.aspx?crs_id=12650" scope="external">
                      <u>Ethics</u>
                    </xref>
                  </p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <p>Insights On Demand (IOD)</p>
                  <p>A/BO Case Management Course</p>
                </entry>
                <entry>Web- based Training within AXOL</entry>
                <entry>A/BOs</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>Initial (<i>not required prior to issuance of</i>
                  </p>
                  <p>
                    <i>a managing account)</i>
                  </p>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>
                    <i>Available in</i>
                  </p>
                  <p>U.S. Bank</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <p>Insights on Demand (IOD)</p>
                  <p>A/OPC Case Management Modules</p>
                </entry>
                <entry>Web- based Training within AXOL</entry>
                <entry>A/OPCs</entry>
                <entry>Initial (<i>not required prior to appointment)</i>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>
                    <i>Available in</i>
                  </p>
                  <p>U.S. Bank</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Army Master Training/Local GPC Training</entry>
                <entry>In Person</entry>
                <entry>All</entry>
                <entry>Initial/ Refresher</entry>
                <entry>Army and Organization/Activity Slides</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>SOP Ordering Official Training</entry>
                <entry/>
                <entry>
                  <p>A/OPCs;</p>
                  <p>A/BOs and CHs <b>spending over the MPT</b>
                  </p>
                </entry>
                <entry>Initial</entry>
                <entry>Command Specific</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </conbody>
    </concept>