<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_5-6">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">5-6.</ph> Card Suspension Policy</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. Level 3 and 4 A/OPCs have the authority to
suspend BO and CH accounts due to non-compliance with GPC policies
and procedures.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>Automatic Suspensions</b>.
Requests for suspension exemptions for BO accounts with operational
emergencies may be granted on a case-by-case basis. Exemption
requests must be submitted in writing from the Level 4 A/OPC to the
Level 3. In accordance with DoD business practices, U.S. Bank will
automatically suspend BO accounts under the following
conditions:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) BO’s account goes over 60 days past due
(90 days after the billing date). The managing account and all card
accounts under it are suspended until the delinquent payment has
posted.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) BO’s account goes over 180 days past due
(210 days after the billing date). All managing accounts assigned
under the Level 4 agent are suspended until delinquent payment has
posted. The delinquent managing account is permanently closed
(T9).</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) BO’s account has more than 20 open card
and/or checking accounts. The managing account is suspended unless
a waiver has been approved by the Army Level 2 A/OPC.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) Before reopening a closed account due to a
delinquent payment, the Level 3 and/or 4 A/OPC will document that
U.S. Bank received full payment. Only the Army Level 2 may reopen
suspended accounts prior to payment being received by U.S. Bank.
Accounts will be closed permanently if more than two suspensions
occur within a 12-month period. Only the Army Level 2 A/OPC may
approve waivers to this policy.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>