<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_8-3">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">8-3.</ph> Entire COTS Course (Group
Training)</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a.</p>
        <p>Cardholders may use the GPC to purchase an entire COTS course.
In this category, the CH is coordinating with the vendor to
schedule and pay for a group training session.  For example,
the CH is scheduling and purchasing a leadership course for up to
30 students.</p>
        <p/>
        <p outputclass="List1">b.</p>
        <p>Group training is a FAR-based transaction and service subject to
the MPT (not subject to SCLS). See FAR Part 2.101, Definition of a
Micro Purchase.</p>
        <p>Requirements exceeding the MPT</p>
        <p>must</p>
        <p>be directed to the supporting contracting office for action.</p>
        <p/>
        <p/>
        <p outputclass="List1">c.</p>
        <p>To purchase a group training session, CHs will have one of the
below designations in their appointment letter, as applicable:</p>
        <p/>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) <b>Micro-Purchase Cardholder</b>. The
course is priced below the applicable MPT and does not require the
CH to agree to terms and conditions other than price and
delivery.  </p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) <b>Contract Ordering Official
Cardholder</b>. The course is available under established
contracts (e.g., FSS, indefinite-delivery contracts, BPAs) that do
not require the CH to agree to terms and conditions other than
price and delivery. Cardholders may order a training course up to
their delegated limit for this authority ($25K or $250K maximum).
See Table 1-3 and paragraph 1-8.e. </p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d.</p>
        <p>
          <b>File Documentation</b>
        </p>
        <p>. Cardholders will include the following documentation in their
purchase file: </p>
        <p/>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Army Purchase Request &amp; Approval (PR&amp;A)
or equivalent.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Invoice and/or receipt. </p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) 889 Representation.  </p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) Proof of class completion (e.g., training
certificates, sign-in roster, Section V of PR&amp;A, TED Credit
Card Purchase report).   </p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e.</p>
        <p>
          <b>SF 182</b>
        </p>
        <p>. The purchase of an entire group session is subject to the MPT
even if each student has an SF 182.</p>
        <p>The fact that each student has an SF 182 does not mean the CH is
paying for individual slots. </p>
        <p/>
        <p outputclass="List1">f.</p>
        <p>The following examples illustrate the proper application of the
MPT for group training.  See 8-6 for additional
examples. </p>
        <p/>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) <b>Example 1</b>. A CH is buying a
Myers-Briggs seminar for 35 employees at a total cost of $9,500.
The GPC may be used as both the procurement and payment mechanism
because total cost is below the MPT. </p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) <b>Example 2</b>. An organization is
requesting a 3-day retirement course for 150 participants held at
the installation. The total cost is $30,000. The organization
cannot divide the total cost by 150 to arrive at a price per
student ($200) and pay for 150 separate slots. The MPT must be
applied to the aggregate cost, i.e., $30,000. Because the total
cost exceeds the MPT, the GPC cannot be used as the purchasing
method.  The request must be procured by a contract
action.  If desired, GPC may be used as the payment mechanism
on the contract. </p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>