<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_12-3">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">12-3.</ph> Required
Internal Controls for ETOs</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. In anticipation of ETOs, the Army will
identify, train, and appoint individuals in JAM with the
Micro-Purchase ETO CH and/or Check Writer, or Warranted Overseas
ETO CH, designation. Monthly and single transaction limits should
be raised when ETOs are being supported. There will be no blanket
increase of these CH authorities.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. The HCA determines whether an event/mission is
considered an ETO. The requiring activity identifies each
transaction that is in support of an ETO in the PR&amp;A. The BO
approves the request and confirms whether it is in support of a
particular ETO and therefore allowable under the related
regulation. The CH will identify the transaction as “In
support of an ETO” in the bank’s EAS.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. All open-market transactions (i.e., those not
placed under existing contracts) that exceed the increased MPTs
must be performed by a Contracting Officer. All ETOs conducted in
accordance with DFARS 213.201(g) can be undertaken only by a
Contracting Officer.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>Follow-up Reviews</b>. Contracting
commands must designate officials (e.g., Level 3 or 4 A/OPC) to
conduct follow-up reviews of transactions in support of each ETO.
These follow-up reviews should take place as soon as practicable,
but no later than 60 days after any given transaction. The
officials will evaluate whether the transaction demonstrated the
following:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Consistent with Army policies and procedures
and otherwise reasonable and appropriate,</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Provided the maximum practicable opportunity
for small business participation under the circumstances, and</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Appropriately documented by the CH.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>