<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_6-2" class="- topic/topic concept/concept "><title class="- topic/title "><ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">6-2.</ph> GPC Purchasing Process</title><conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody "><p class="- topic/p ">Cardholders should follow the steps in Table 6-1 when purchasing
items or services within the MPT.</p><p id="Table_6-1_Cardholder_Micro-purchase_Ste" class="- topic/p ">Table 6-1: Cardholder Micro-purchase
Steps</p><table class="- topic/table "><tgroup cols="3" class="- topic/tgroup "><colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="0.2*" rowheader="headers" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.2*" rowheader="headers" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" colwidth="1.5*" rowheader="headers" class="- topic/colspec "/><tbody class="- topic/tbody "><row class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry ">
                  <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Step</b>
                </entry><entry class="- topic/entry ">
                  <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Action</b>
                </entry><entry class="- topic/entry ">
                  <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Details</b>
                </entry></row><row class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry ">
                  <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">1</b>
                </entry><entry class="- topic/entry ">Receive and screen Army Purchase Request and Approval (PR&amp;A)
or equivalent from requiring activity.</entry><entry class="- topic/entry ">Ensure PR&amp;A identifies a legitimate government need; market
research performed; any recommended vendors; and consideration of
required sources.</entry></row><row class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry ">
                  <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">2</b>
                </entry><entry class="- topic/entry ">Verify appropriate procurement method. If GPC is not the
appropriate method, return the request to the requiring activity
with the recommendation on the proper procurement method to be
used.</entry><entry class="- topic/entry ">Consider funding type and funding amount. Confirm whether the
requested item/service is authorized to buy with GPC. Confirm that
the purchase is within the CH’s delegation of authority.</entry></row><row class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry ">
                  <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">3</b>
                </entry><entry class="- topic/entry ">Determine the appropriate vendor.</entry><entry class="- topic/entry ">Check mandatory sources first. See Chapter 9. If no mandatory
source exists, screen the requirement from recommended Government
sources and commercial platforms/sources. Rotate commercial
sources.</entry></row><row class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry ">
                  <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">4</b>
                </entry><entry class="- topic/entry ">Review the quote. Inform the vendor that the purchase is tax
exempt.</entry><entry class="- topic/entry ">Confirm whether the supplies/services description meets the
minimum customer needs and is readily available. Check quote for
sales tax; if identified, ask vendor to remove tax. Review quote
for terms and conditions. Provide Government shipping details.</entry></row></tbody></tgroup></table><table class="- topic/table "><tgroup cols="3" class="- topic/tgroup "><colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="0.2*" rowheader="headers" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.2*" rowheader="headers" class="- topic/colspec "/><colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" colwidth="1.5*" rowheader="headers" class="- topic/colspec "/><tbody class="- topic/tbody "><row class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry ">
                  <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Step</b>
                </entry><entry class="- topic/entry ">
                  <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Action</b>
                </entry><entry class="- topic/entry ">
                  <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Details</b>
                </entry></row><row class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry ">
                  <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">5</b>
                </entry><entry class="- topic/entry ">Confirm if the vendor is 889 compliant.</entry><entry class="- topic/entry ">Use the GSA Easy Search Tool, 889 Bot, Sam.gov, or a
vendor’s signed 889 form. If vendor is not registered in
SAM.gov, ask vendor to complete an 889 form. If vendor is not 889
compliant, find another vendor.</entry></row><row class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry ">
                  <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">6</b>
                </entry><entry class="- topic/entry ">Verify all required approvals prior to the purchase.</entry><entry class="- topic/entry ">The BO must approve the request in writing. The BO will verify
funding availability prior to approval. Other approvals may be
required depending on the purchase (e.g., APO, legal, ITAS).</entry></row><row class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry ">
                  <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">7</b>
                </entry><entry class="- topic/entry ">Place the order.</entry><entry class="- topic/entry ">Make purchase over phone, in person, internet, or email. Only
the CH is authorized to make the purchase.</entry></row><row class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry ">
                  <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">8</b>
                </entry><entry class="- topic/entry ">Update the Purchase Log.</entry><entry class="- topic/entry ">Match the transaction and complete all required fields (e.g.,
889 Designation) in the bank’s EAS.</entry></row><row class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry ">
                  <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">9</b>
                </entry><entry class="- topic/entry ">Obtain independent receipt and acceptance. Give receipt to the
APO when applicable.</entry><entry class="- topic/entry ">
                  <p class="- topic/p ">Ensure that a government employee (not the CH or BO) confirms
receipt of items/services in writing.</p>
                  <p class="- topic/p ">
Provide a copy of the receipt to the APO within 5 business days,
when applicable.</p>
                </entry></row><row class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry ">
                  <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">10</b>
                </entry><entry class="- topic/entry ">Upload supporting documentation into the bank’s EAS.</entry><entry class="- topic/entry ">Attach the supporting documents identified in 6-2.g. below.</entry></row><row class="- topic/row "><entry class="- topic/entry ">
                  <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">11</b>
                </entry><entry class="- topic/entry ">Resolve any problems. If unable to resolve with vendor, submit a
dispute in the bank’s EAS.</entry><entry class="- topic/entry ">Contact vendor directly to resolve minor issues, such as
shipping costs or sales tax. Dispute transactions when appropriate.
Ensure disputes are exercised no later than <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">45 calendar
days</b> after the transaction’s posting.</entry></row></tbody></tgroup></table><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">a. Personnel requiring supplies/services must
provide written requests to the CH. Upon receipt of a purchase
request, the CH should identify if the requirement can be made
within the scope of the GPC program. Cardholders must ensure the
requirement is a legitimate government need and determine if the
requirement can be met within their credit limits.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">b. The BO must verify availability of funds at the
time of each purchase. No Government employee may create or
authorize an obligation in excess of available funds or in advance
of appropriations.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">c. Only the CH is authorized to make the purchase
- no exceptions. CHs cannot re-delegate their authority. Purchases
can be made in person or by telephone, internet, or email.
Cardholders must maintain card security throughout the buying
process. Invoices must be in English.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">d. <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Shipping</b>. CHs are unauthorized
to ship to personal residences or other commercial addresses
without approval from Level 3 A/OPC. For OCONUS purchases, CHs
should coordinate with their local logistics office to determine
whether commercial shipment is available for purchases outside the
U.S. If it is not, ensure the vendor is provided with the necessary
information to allow the purchase to enter the Defense
Transportation System (DTS), which requires that the shipment has a
Military Shipping Label (MSL) that includes a Transportation
Control Number, Final Destination (in country) address and DoD
Activity Address Code (DoDAAC), Priority, Required Delivery Date,
and Transportation Accounting Code. <ph id="Toc64815327" class="- topic/ph "/>
        </p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">e. <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Precautions to Avoid Frustrated
Freight</b>. A supplier shipment that becomes
“frustrated” is, at a minimum, delayed along the
transportation chain and will not move until all problems are
resolved. Many times, the shipment never reaches the intended
recipient. When using a GPC to purchase items with delivery to a
destination outside the United States, two methods of
transportation generally are available: commercial door-to-door and
the DTS. If commercial shipping is not used, a purchaser must
coordinate with his/her transportation service support office
(e.g., Installation Transportation Office, Transportation
Management Office, or Supply Support Activity) before ordering the
item. The Component ordering the item with a GPC is responsible for
ensuring the shipper (i.e., vendor) is provided the completed MSL
to place on the cargo before it arrives at a DoD facility for
movement in DTS. Shipments entering the DTS require additional
funding and shipping, marking, and packaging instructions. Prior to
shipment of hazardous material, the shipper is required to certify
shipment to the final destination by attaching a certification
certificate/document on the package in accordance with
International Air Transport Association or International Maritime
Dangerous Goods code, etc. Using only the stateside DTS military
transit port or intermediate point without including the final
destination DoDAAC in-country will cause a shipment to become
frustrated.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">f. <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Thirty</b>-<b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Day
Delivery</b>. <ph id="Hlk152851478" class="- topic/ph "/>Cardholders generally
should seek vendors that have the required inventory supply (or
labor capacity, for services) to enable delivery of the purchase
within 30 calendar days while also meeting the requirements at a
fair and reasonable price. Delivery timeframes in excess of 30 days
may cause problems such as tracking purchases against monthly
billing cycle limits and shipping items charged to a closed
account.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">g. <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Purchase File Documentation</b>. Collection and retention of GPC documentation in centralized, electronic records is mandated to support Federal-Government-wide paperless initiatives; ensure information is available to support program operations and oversight functions; and fulfill record retention requirements. Per <xref format="html" href="http://comptroller.defense.gov/Portals/45/documents/fmr/Volume_10.pdf" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">DoD FMR Volume 10, Chapter 23, Paragraph 230307</xref>, CHs must document and upload transaction supporting documentation for each and every purchase and its associated transaction using the servicing bank’s EAS, Transaction Management - Attachment function. CHs must upload documentation throughout the billing cycle to assist BOs, A/OPCs, and auditors in completing transaction reviews per DoD SmartPay® 3 Transition Memorandum #6. CHs will attach documents for each billing cycle before approving their statement. BOs should review the transaction documentation prior to certifying the managing account. Records retention requirements are addressed in the <xref href="Appendix-EE_6-2.dita#AFARS_Appendix-EE_6-2" class="- topic/xref " outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">DoD FMR</xref>. The <xref href="Appendix-EE_6-2.dita#AFARS_Appendix-EE_6-2" class="- topic/xref " outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">DoD FMR</xref> requires that the CH include acceptance documentation for every purchase. Required file documentation includes but is not limited to the following:</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">1) Army Purchase Request &amp; Approval (PR&amp;A)
or equivalent​*</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">2) 889 Representation​*</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">3) Invoice and/or itemized receipt​</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">4) Proof of independent receipt and
acceptance​</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">5) Other approvals, when applicable (e.g., legal,
ITAS, Statement of Non-Availability (SONA))</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">6) Local agency requirements</p><p class="- topic/p ">* For individual slot training payments, CHs must upload the SF
182 or equivalent in lieu of items 1) and 2) above. CHs must redact
any personally identifiable information (PII) before uploading.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">h. The Accountable Property Officer (APO)
determines if the goods purchased will be placed on APO records in
accordance with AR 710-4. Cardholders are required to provide
receipts of accountable goods to the APO within 5 business days of
obtaining the receipt.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">i. <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Independent Receipt and
Acceptance</b>. CHs must obtain proof of independent receipt
and acceptance for all purchases. The CH will ensure receipt and
acceptance is properly performed and confirmed through
documentation by a government employee other than the purchasing
CH. The individual verifying receipt may be the CH’s
supervisor or other designated individual, as appropriate. CHs must
upload the documentation in the servicing bank’s EAS.
Shipping items to a home or alternative work address requires
approval documentation from the Level 3 A/OPC in the purchase file.
The BO verifies the existence of receipt and acceptance
documentation during reconciliation of the billing statement.
Acceptable documentation includes (but is not limited to) the
following:​</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">1) Signed invoice, packing slip or equivalent.
​In addition to the signature, the receiver should include
the date of receipt, printed name, telephone number, and office
symbol or address.</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">2) PR&amp;A signed by the receiver.​</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">3) Email confirmation from the
receiver.​</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">4) WAWF Purchase Card Receiving Report.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">j. <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">File Retention</b>. If the
complete file documentation is uploaded in the bank’s EAS,
CHs are not required to maintain a duplicate hardcopy or electronic
file. The servicing bank will retain all uploaded files for the
required timeframe. BOs are responsible for ensuring that CHs
upload documentation. BOs must retain existing hardcopy files for
six years in accordance with FAR Part 4 that are not uploaded into
the bank’s EAS.</p><p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">k. <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Cybersecurity</b>. The Army GPC
community must be aware of cybersecurity risks when making
purchases using the GPC. Some of the key cyber supply-chain risks
include:</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">1) Services provided by vendors and other third
parties (e.g., heating, ventilation, and air conditioning services,
IT software engineering services, or anyone with access to the
physical or virtual network).</p><p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">2) Poor information security practices and/or
compromised software or hardware procured from suppliers.</p><p class="- topic/p ">Purchases of hardware, software, telecommunications equipment,
video surveillance equipment, and related services from certain
vendors are prohibited. The <xref format="html" href="https://2017-2021.state.gov/fiscal-year-2018-national-defense-authorization-act-ndaa/index.html" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">FY
2018 NDAA</xref>, Sections 1634(A) and (B) (see FAR 4.2002 and
13.201(i)) implemented a supply/service ban that
prohibits the use of hardware, software, and services of Kaspersky
Lab and its related entities by the Federal Government. The <xref format="html" href="https://www.acquisition.gov/Section-889-Policies" scope="external" class="- topic/xref ">FY 2019
NDAA Section 889</xref> implemented broader bans as described in
section 6-3.</p></conbody></concept>