<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_17-3">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">17-3.</ph> Standard Reports in the Servicing
Bank’s EAS</title>
      <conbody>
        <p>U.S. Bank Access Online features a full range of reports that
enable users to analyze vital program data to support program
management and vendor relationships. All Access Online reports are
parameter- driven and have different parameters based on the data
elements available for each report. Users can run reports by
performing three basic steps:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) <b>Select the report</b>. Begin by
accessing the custom reports function and then navigating to and
selecting the custom report you want to run.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) <b>Specify parameters</b>. Set
parameters for the report, such as date range.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) <b>Run the report</b>. After
specifying any report-specific parameters, select to run the report
or save and then run the report.</p>
        <p id="Table_17-3_Summary_of_Standard_Report_C">Table 17-3: Summary of Standard Report
Categories</p>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="0.7*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.3*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <b>Report Category</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Category Description</b>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Program management</entry>
                <entry>The reports in this category enable you to monitor compliance
with your organization’s program policies. You can also use
these reports for general program management activities.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Financial management</entry>
                <entry>These reports contain detailed transaction information,
including transaction data and allocation.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Supplier management</entry>
                <entry>You can use the reports in this category to manage your supplier
relationships, support negotiations and manage spending by
category.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Tax and compliance management</entry>
                <entry>You can use the reports in this category to estimate sales/use
tax, track spending for 1099/1057 vendors, and perform other
regulatory reporting (e.g., with minority-owned suppliers).</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Administration</entry>
                <entry>You can use the reports in this category to manage the
functionality you use in Access Online.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>User Activity Audit reports</entry>
                <entry>These reports capture activity that users take in Access
Online.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Scheduled reports</entry>
                <entry>These reports are standard reports that Program Administrators
can set up to run on specific dates in the future.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Flex Data reports</entry>
                <entry>These are basic ad hoc reports that Program Administrators
create based on pre-created report templates.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Custom reports</entry>
                <entry>These are complex, highly customized ad hoc reports we worked
with clients to create to meet specific program management
needs.</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p id="Table_17-4_Program_Management_Reports">Table 17-4: Program Management Reports</p>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="0.6*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.4*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <b>Report</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Report Description</b>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Account History</entry>
                <entry>This report provides information on the history of changes to
accounts so that you can easily manage and track updates.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Account List</entry>
                <entry>You can use this report to give you a comprehensive list of all
the accounts in your program. With a single, complete list you can
quickly and easily review and make decisions about your program
accounts.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Account Spend Analysis</entry>
                <entry>This report helps you audit CH accounts to ensure program
compliance.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Account Status Change</entry>
                <entry>This report lets you quickly identify an account with changes
within a given period. This information lets you track correct
changes and spot trends that may need addressing (e.g., a high
number of lost/stolen cards).</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Account Suspension</entry>
                <entry>This report lets you quickly identify suspended accounts and
review program policy adherence rates. You can leverage this
information to manage policy guidelines.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Declined Transaction Authorizations</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>This report provides details of declined transaction
authorizations along with related account and merchant information
to help you</p>
                  <p>monitor program compliance, card usage, and merchant program
parameters.</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Order File History</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>This report provides a history of your order file loading and
matching to</p>
                  <p>help you monitor and manage the order management function in the
system.</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Past Due</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>This report lets you quickly identify problem accounts and
review</p>
                  <p>program policy adherence rates. You can leverage this
information to manage policy guidelines.</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p id="Table_17-5_Financial_Management_Reports">Table 17-5: Financial Management Reports</p>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="0.6*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.4*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <b>Report</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Report Description</b>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Full Transaction and Order Detail</entry>
                <entry>This report provides full expenditure detail, including Level
III data, for complete analysis of orders and transactions.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Managing Account Approval Status</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>This report provides a history of managing account and
cardholder account statement approvals and certifications. You can
use this report to track the status and progress of account
approvals as they align with your internal operating procedures. In
this way, you can</p>
                  <p>ensure compliance with established procedures and actively
manage and improve the efficiency of your program.</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Order Detail</entry>
                <entry>This report provides detailed order data, including line-item
detail.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Transaction Detail</entry>
                <entry>This report provides detailed transaction data, including
merchant detail, transaction allocation information, and
transaction comment data.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Transaction Summary</entry>
                <entry>This report provides a summary of the transactions. It also
includes information if an electronic attachment is present and/or
the ability to view the attachment.</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p id="Table_17-6_Supplier_Management_Reports">Table 17-6: Supplier Management Reports</p>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="0.6*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.4*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <b>Report</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Report Description</b>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Merchant Spend Analysis</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>This report gives you an overall view of total supplier base
activity or</p>
                  <p>total commodity type. You can use this information to support
service- level and pricing requests with your suppliers.</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Merchant Spend Analysis by Line Item</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>This report provides summary and detail information for
analyzing</p>
                  <p>merchant spend activity by purchasing line item to help support
purchasing strategy and vendor negotiations.</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Top Merchant Spend Analysis</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>This report lets you compare vendors based on purchase activity.
When you combine this information with information on supplier
service, you can put together a comprehensive profile of your
key</p>
                  <p>vendors.</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p id="Table_17-7_Administration_Reports">Table 17-7: Administration Reports</p>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="0.5*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.5*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <b>Report</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Report Description</b>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>System User List Detail</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>This report gives you detailed information about users in a
single</p>
                  <p>organization. You can use this report to manage the cardholders
and other users who work in Access Online.</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>System User List</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>This report gives you information about user IDs and associated
user profiles. The report includes a list of user hierarchy access
and user</p>
                  <p>functional entitlements. You can use this report to manage the
cardholders and other users who work in Access Online.</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p id="Table_17-8_User_Activity_Audit_reports">Table 17-8: User Activity Audit reports</p>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="0.5*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.5*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <b>Report</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Report Description</b>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Transaction Management</entry>
                <entry>You can use this report to review a detailed history of activity
and changes for transaction-related actions such as transaction
approval, rejection, reallocation, and extraction.</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="0.5*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.5*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <b>Report</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Report Description</b>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Order Management</entry>
                <entry>You can use this report to track users’ actions within
Order Management, including maintaining orders, matching multiple
orders to transactions, and managing order receipt.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>User Profiles</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>You can use this report to review a detailed history of activity
and changes for user profile-related actions such as changing
login</p>
                  <p>information, contact information, updating processing hierarchy
position, or adding/removing an account.</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>PIEE Task Queue</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>Detailed History of PIEE appointment task activity including
creation and maintenance of User Profiles, Point of Contacts,
Cardholder Accounts,</p>
                  <p>and Managing Accounts.</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </conbody>
    </concept>