<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_5-1">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">5-1.</ph> Nomination, Selection, and Appointment
of Cardholders and Billing Officials</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. Nomination, selection, and appointment of BOs
and CHs are in accordance with DoD Charge Card Guidebook Chapters
A.1.1 and A.3. A/OPCs must receive written and signed approval from
the BO/CH’s supervisory chain of command before initiating
their appointment process. BOs should be in the supervisory chain
of command of the CH.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. Army BOs will receive both Approving/Billing
Official and Certifying Officer appointments. Army BOs both approve
and certify statements during the certification process. Approving
Officials (AOs) follow pay and confirm procedures and are not
appointed as Certifying Officers, e.g., Air Force AOs under the
Army program.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. GPC Delegation of Authority and appointment
letters will clearly state the duties of the program participant,
any dollar limit of the procurement authority (when applicable),
and any limitations on the scope of authority to be exercised other
than those contained in applicable law or regulation. All
delegates/appointees must countersign their letters electronically
in JAM to acknowledge they understand and concur with their GPC
program responsibilities prior to establishing any accounts in the
bank’s EAS.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. A/OPCs will maintain and monitor all
delegations, appointments letters, and training certificates
electronically in JAM in accordance with section 6-13. If
electronic versions are available, the Level 4 A/OPC is not
required to maintain a hard copy. Audit agencies can request access
to PIEE modules when required. Ensure military and civilian
out-processing checklists include a mandatory A/OPC sign-off for
BOs and CHs.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. <b>Receiving a GPC</b>. Standard
practice is to have the card mailed to the CH’s work address
in accordance with the GSA SmartPay®3 contract. Using a
CH’s home address may be a fraud indicator and should not be
a normal practice. Whether the card is mailed to the CH’s
primary work address or an alternate address, the CH must maintain
the physical security of the card. Examples of alternate address
uses include, but are not limited to, the following:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) When an A/OPC wants all cards mailed to the
A/OPC’s work address, and then the A/OPC provides each card
to the new CH’s work location.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) When the A/OPC feels it is more reliable to
have the card mailed to the A/OPC’s work address and then
sent by express mail to a CH’s work address overseas.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) When the organization has a policy that all
cards will be sent to the work address of the responsible BO, who
will then deliver each card to the CH in person or to the
CH’s work address.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) When the CH will not be at the work location
(duty station) for an extended period (COVID-19 stay-at-home orders
would be one such example), the CH’s home address could be
used. If</p>
        <p>the CH’s home address is used for card delivery, a note or
memorandum for record must be added to the account notes stating
why the home address was used.</p>
        <p id="Table_5-1_Delegations_and_Appointments">Table 5-1: Delegations and Appointments for
each Program Role</p>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="4">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.9*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="0.7*"/>
            <colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" colwidth="0.7*"/>
            <colspec colname="col4" colnum="4" colwidth="0.7*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <b>Role</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Delegation of Procurement Authority Letter
Required</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>
                    <b>GPC</b>
                  </p>
                  <p>
                    <b>Appointment Letter Required</b>
                  </p>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>DD Form 577 Required</b>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Level 1</entry>
                <entry>No</entry>
                <entry>Yes</entry>
                <entry>No</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Level 2 Component Program Manager</entry>
                <entry>No</entry>
                <entry>Yes</entry>
                <entry>No</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Level 3 A/OPC <b>with</b> Authority to Delegate
Procurement Authority</entry>
                <entry>Yes</entry>
                <entry>Yes</entry>
                <entry>No</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Level 3 A/OPC <b>without</b> Authority to Delegate
Procurement Authority</entry>
                <entry>No</entry>
                <entry>Yes</entry>
                <entry>No</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Level 4 A/OPC <b>with</b> Authority to Delegate
Procurement Authority</entry>
                <entry>Yes</entry>
                <entry>Yes</entry>
                <entry>No</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Level 4 A/OPC <b>without</b> Authority to Delegate
Procurement Authority</entry>
                <entry>No</entry>
                <entry>Yes</entry>
                <entry>No</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Resource Managers (All Levels)</entry>
                <entry>No</entry>
                <entry>No</entry>
                <entry>No</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Billing Officials who are Certifying Officers</entry>
                <entry>No</entry>
                <entry>Yes</entry>
                <entry>Yes</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Certifying Officers</entry>
                <entry>No</entry>
                <entry>No</entry>
                <entry>Yes</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <p>Pay and Confirm Officials</p>
                  <p>(Departmental Accountable Official (DAO))</p>
                </entry>
                <entry>No</entry>
                <entry>Yes</entry>
                <entry>No</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Cardholders</entry>
                <entry>Yes</entry>
                <entry>Yes</entry>
                <entry>No</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </conbody>
    </concept>