<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_6-3">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">6-3.</ph> National Defense Authorization Act
Section 889 Representation</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. Effective August 13, 2020, FAR Case 2018-017
amends the FAR to implement section 889(a)(1(B) of the John S.
McCain NDAA for Fiscal Year 2019 which prohibits Federal agencies
from purchasing products or services from entities that use covered
equipment or services as a substantial or essential component of
any system, or as critical technology as part of any system,
regardless of whether that usage is in performance of work under
Federal contract. <xref format="html" href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/asda/dpc/cp/cyber/gpc.html" scope="external">
            <u>DPCAP
889 Memorandum dated September 9,</u>
          </xref>
          <xref format="html" href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/asda/dpc/cp/cyber/gpc.html" scope="external">
            <u>2020</u>

          </xref>
requires recording of specific 889 designations in the bank’s
EAS for <b>all</b> GPC transactions. <xref format="html" href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/asda/dpc/ce/pc/docs/guides-docs/DPC-CeB_Memo-Recording_889_Designation_and_ETO_Values(GPC-2022-02).pdf" scope="external">
            <u>DPCAP</u>
          </xref>
          <xref format="html" href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/asda/dpc/ce/pc/docs/guides-docs/DPC-CeB_Memo-Recording_889_Designation_and_ETO_Values(GPC-2022-02).pdf" scope="external">
            <u>GPC
Memorandum dated June 29, 2022</u>
          </xref> provides further guidance on
completing the required fields. CHs must record 889 Designation
information in the bank’s EAS.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>889 Representation</b>. Federal
law requires CHs to obtain a current 889 representation for each
transaction and to include the representation with their
transaction documentation. The representation contains the language
from FAR 52.204-26, Covered Telecommunications Equipment or
Services- Representation. CHs may obtain the vendor’s 889
representation by using one of the following methods:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Search for vendor on the 889 GSA Easy Search
Tool: <xref format="html" href="https://889.smartpay.gsa.gov/" scope="external">https://889.smartpay.gsa.gov/</xref>.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Use the robotic process automation (RPA) tool
to search SAM.gov. Send an email to <xref format="html" href="mailto:info@section889request.com" scope="external">
            <u>info@section889request.com</u>
          </xref>
with the vendor’s Unique Entity ID (UEI) or Cage code in the
subject line. Do not include any text in the body of the email. The
RPA will return an email with the vendor’s FAR 52.204-26
language, if applicable.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Log into the <xref format="html" href="https://www.sam.gov/" scope="external">
            <u>System for Award Management
(SAM.gov) website</u>.</xref> Locate the vendor’s entity
registration and review FAR 52.204-26, under Reps and Certs.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) Use the vendor’s completed 889
representation form. The form must be dated and signed. Completed
forms are valid for 1 year after date of signature unless the
vendor updates their systems at which time the vendor will need to
fill out a new 889 form.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. The requirement to obtain an 889 representation
does not apply under the following conditions:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Contract payments. When the GPC is used as a
method of payment against a contract, the Contracting Officer is
responsible for ensuring compliance prior to award.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Inter/intra-governmental payments.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) SF 182 individual training payments.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) Fraudulent (external) transactions.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">5) Fees (e.g., convenience check fees).</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">6) Refunds and transaction credits/discounts.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. Pursuant to DoD policy, bank EAS entries must
indicate how the vendor’s 889 representation was obtained.
For 100% of transactions, CH must enter appropriate 889 designation
in the bank’s EAS. CHs must enter one of the allowable codes
in Table 6-2 in the following locations in the bank’s EAS, as
applicable:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) CHs creating manual orders will use the
“889 Designation” field in Order Management.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) CHs receiving editable eOrders will use the
“889 Designation” field in Order Management.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) CHs receiving non-editable eOrders will use the
“889 Designation” field in the Custom Fields tab in
Transaction Management.</p>
        <p>BOs must check for bank EAS entries when reconciling. BOs and
A/OPCs must monitor 889 compliance during DM case dispositions and
should use the “Cyber Security Non-Compliance” finding
for cases without an 889 bank EAS entry once CI 193 is
implemented.</p>
        <p id="Table_6-2_DoD_Allowable_Purchase_Log_En">Table 6-2: DoD Allowable Purchase Log
Entries</p>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="0.5*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.5*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <b>Text to Enter in the 889 Designation Field</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Applicability</b>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>889 Merchant Rep</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>Merchant provided the required 889 representation at FAR
52.204-26(c)(2) or equivalent with a “does not”
response; the CH relied upon the</p>
                  <p>representation to make the purchase.</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>889 ODNI</entry>
                <entry>Merchant provided the required 889 representation at FAR
52.204-26(c)(2) or equivalent with a “does” response,
but it has been determined the required supplies/services are
covered by an ODNI waiver granted in accordance with FAR 4.2104
(e.g., the transaction is for supplies/services included in a
Product Service Code (PSC)-based waiver); the CH relied upon the
waiver to make the purchase.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>889 Exception</entry>
                <entry>Merchant has provided the required 889 representation at FAR
52.204- 26(c)(2) with a “does” response, but in
conjunction with the supporting contracting office, a FAR
52.204-25(c) exception applies; the CH relied upon the exception to
make the purchase. Written approval from the supporting contracting
office must be included with the transaction supporting data.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>889 Payment</entry>
                <entry>CH was not required to obtain the required 889 representation at
FAR 52.204-26(c)(2) because the GPC was used only as a method of
payment. Examples include the following payments: contract
payments; intra/inter- governmental payments; and SF 182 commercial
training payments.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>889 Non-Compliant</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>CH purchased supplies/services without obtaining the required
889 representation at FAR 52.204-26, that were not covered by an
ODNI waiver, an Executive Agency waiver, or a FAR authorized
exception. The</p>
                  <p>purchase was NOT in compliance with GPC policy.</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="0.5*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.5*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <b>Text to Enter in the 889 Designation Field</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Applicability</b>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Fraudulent (external) Transactions</entry>
                <entry>CH should select when transaction is believed to be a fraudulent
purchase.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Disputed Transactions</entry>
                <entry>CH should select when disputing the transaction.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Fees (e.g., Convenience Check)</entry>
                <entry>CH should select when transaction is for fees.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Refunds &amp; Trans Credits/Discounts</entry>
                <entry>CH should select when transaction is for refunds and transaction
credits and discounts.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>Memo for Record approved by A/OPC</entry>
                <entry>For other A/OPC-approved scenarios, CHs should prepare a short
MFR documenting the situation and include it with the transaction
supporting data in the bank’s EAS or as otherwise directed in
Component GPC record retention instructions.</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </conbody>
    </concept>