<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_14-2">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">14-2.</ph> Unauthorized Commitments and
Ratification</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. An unauthorized commitment (UAC) is defined by
FAR 1.602-3(a) as “an agreement that is not binding solely
because the Government representative who made it lacked the
authority to enter into that agreement on behalf of the
Government.” See AFARS 5101.602-3-90. The only individuals
who can bind the Government are warranted contracting officers,
ordering officials, and cardholders acting within the limits of
their delegated authority. The primary factor in determining
whether a purchase is considered a UAC is contracting authority.
CHs have this authority from their appointment letter. When an
individual without contracting authority initiates a purchase, it
is considered a UAC. The designated CH is the only person
authorized to make purchases with a GPC.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. Payment for goods or services accepted for an
UAC may be made only through the ratification process. Payment
cannot be made unless a Contracting Officer has awarded a contract
or an authorized GPC holder acting within his or her delegation of
authority has ordered the item(s).</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>Examples of Unauthorized
Commitments</b>.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) The Army receives services/supplies in which a
properly executed funding document and an authorized procurement
method (e.g., contract, BPA, or GPC) was not established prior to
the Government ordering the services/supplies.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Someone other than the CH contacts a vendor and
asks them to provide supplies or perform work, without the
CH’s knowledge and without prior approval of the billing
official.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) An individual without contracting authority
orders supplies or services.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) CH orders supplies or services exceeding their
procurement authority.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">5) A vendor mistakes a request for information as
an order, ships the item, the receiver does not realize it is an
improper order and accepts the item rather than rejecting and
returning the item.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">6) A contractor continues to perform a service
contract or provide leased/rented equipment after the expiration
date of the contract. This situation frequently occurs on yearly
services/maintenance/lease-type contracts for which there is a
continuing need.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">7) An individual makes a commitment for
continuation of services over and above the original scope and
dollar amount, or delivery of supplies under an expired contract,
purchase order, or delivery order.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">8) An individual makes a commitment which exceeds
the call order limit on a BPA.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">9) A person who does not have delegated authority
makes a commitment under a BPA.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>Common Reasons for UACs</b>.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Failure to plan procurement needs far enough in
advance to utilize normal contracting procedures.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Encountering emergency program requirements and
not believing there is enough time to go through normal procurement
procedures.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Failure to expeditiously review, approve, and
transmit procurement requests to the Procurement Office.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) Failure to perform extensive market research
before taking an action.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">5) Government officials not understanding the
parameters of their actual authority or lack thereof.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">6) Government official not understanding that
agreeing to an option presented by a contractor could be an
unauthorized action if it creates more work or expense.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. <b>Ratification Process</b>. AFARS
5101.602-3-90 outlines the Army process for ratifying an
unauthorized commitment. The Government accepts liability through
ratification. When an A/OPC identifies a potential unauthorized
commitment, the A/OPC must contact the local contracting office to
initiate the ratification process.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">f. <b>Payment of Properly Ratified Claims
with the GPC.</b> After the UAC is ratified, the payment of
the ratified claim may be made through an appropriate contract
action (e.g., award of a contract, modification to a contract,
purchase order, GPC). After ratification, the GPC may be used to
satisfy the commitment if the amount of payment is within the
cardholder’s authority. If the outstanding charges have
already been paid in error with the GPC prior to the discovery of
the UAC, the UAC is being processed for ratification only and the
supporting documentation is loaded in the bank’s EAS.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>