<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_2-7">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">2-7.</ph> Level 6 - Cardholder Duties and
Responsibilities</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. CH authority is limited to the threshold
indicated on their delegation of authority in JAM.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. Use GPC to make authorized purchases within the
limits of their delegation of authority in JAM.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. Screen all purchase requests upon receipt.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. Verify that the requested items meet a
legitimate government need.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. Notify the BO of unusual or questionable
purchase requests.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">f. Check requirements for their availability from
the mandatory Government sources.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">g. Make purchases in accordance with FAR Part 8
required sources of supplies and services.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">h. Rotate merchants when practicable.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">i. Allocate transactions to the proper line of
accounting.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">j. Obtain BO approval prior to purchase. Obtain
all required pre-purchase approvals.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">k. Track receipt/acceptance of purchased goods or
services.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">l. Track partial shipments to ensure they are
received within the dispute window.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">m. Track any transactions for items not yet
received.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">n. Collect, maintain and upload the required
purchase documentation in the servicing bank’s EAS.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">o. Match orders and review and reconcile monthly
statement.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">p. Register to receive the bank’s Electronic
Data Notifications (automated email alerts).</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">q. Resolve unauthorized, erroneous, or
questionable transactions with merchants.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">r. Dispute questionable transactions.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">s. Dispute items not received in one billing cycle
when reconciling the next billing cycle.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">t. Dispute unresolved billing errors (e.g.,
supplies not received by the next billing statement).</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">u. Dispute transactions when receipt and
acceptance of goods or services cannot be verified.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">v. Dispute items the merchant fails to replace,
modify, or repair by the allotted time.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">w. Resolve any invalid transactions with the
merchant.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">x. Track all disputes to completion.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">y. Confirm with the merchant the items ordered are
in transit and track the transactions to completion.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">z. Maintain physical security of the GPC and
convenience checks to avoid unauthorized use.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">aa. Do not release the account number to entities
other than a merchant processing a transaction.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">bb. Do not authorize merchants to store the card
number.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">cc. Notify the bank of a lost, stolen, or
compromised GPC within one business day.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">dd. Maintain the bank’s EAS purchase log,
which is located under Transaction Management.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">ee. Reconcile all transactions and upload all
supporting documentation in the bank’s EAS.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">ff. Approve the account statement within 3
business days of the cycle end date.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">gg. Maintain a manual purchase log if the
electronic purchase log in the bank’s EAS is not
accessible.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">hh. Ensure the Accountable Property Officer (APO)
has screened the purchase request.</p>
        <p>ii. Upload all receipts for the APO to review electronically in
the servicing bank’s EAS.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">jj. After items arrive, provide receipts to the
supporting APO within five business days.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">kk. Notify the BO when you are not available to
approve the CH statement.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">ll. Provide all records and purchase file
documentation to the BO upon departure or reassignment.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">mm. Maintain a separation of duties of making
purchases and receiving the goods/services.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">nn. Forward requirements exceeding the MPT to the
contracting office for purchase.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">oo. Verify and document receipt/acceptance of
goods or services.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">pp. Checkwriters - Maintain convenience check
data.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">qq. Checkwriters - Report IRS Form 1099 data to
DFAS.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>