<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_11-3">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">11-3.</ph>
Insights on Demand</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. Insights on Demand (IOD) is the SmartPay®3
data mining (DM) tool used to monitor purchasing activity and
perform oversight functions. IOD provides the capabilities to
identify high-risk transactions and unusual spending patterns; scan
purchasing activity for misuse, fraud, waste, and abuse; and flag
transactions for review. Instructions on how to navigate and
perform functions in IOD are in the servicing bank’s IOD user
guides and in the <xref format="html" href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/asda/dpc/ce/index.html" scope="external">
            <u>Defense
Pricing, Contracting and Acquisition Policy - Contracting eBusiness
website</u>.</xref>
        </p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. GPC program officials must use IOD to perform
the following actions:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Document Daily DM Case Reviews (includes BO DM
Case Questionnaires and A/OPC DM Case Questionnaires), Monthly
A/OPC Reviews (includes Monthly A/OPC Check List and Monthly A/OPC
Review Report) and Semi-Annual Head of Activity (HA) Reviews
(includes Semi-Annual HA Review Report).</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Review all BO completed DM case reviews, and
document any finding, determination, or corrective action taken by
completing the A/OPC DM Case Questionnaire. Failure to complete
required reviews in a timely manner may result in account
suspensions.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Initiate and complete reviews of cases for each
finding and disciplinary category determination they independently
identify (i.e., not flagged by IOD).</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>IOD Terminology</b>. IOD provides
specific terminology in its reference document, “IOD Case and
Review Status Definitions and Workflow,” as well as when
referring to the various levels of A/OPCs.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) “CPM” refers to the Component
Program Manager or Level 2 A/OPC.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) “O AOPC” refers to the Oversight
A/OPC or Level 3 A/OPC.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) “AOPC” refers to the Level 4
A/OPC.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>