<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_6-14">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">6-14.</ph>
Services</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. The GPC may be used to purchase non-personal
services up to the applicable MPT, whether recurring or
non-recurring. If recurring, the requirement is the total estimated
cost per fiscal year. Recurring services estimated to exceed the
MPT per fiscal year will be acquired through the contracting
office. Recurring services are performed at regular intervals and
have a demand that can be accurately predicted on a yearly basis.
Non-recurring services involve one-time, unpredictable, or
occasional requirements, and may be purchased with the GPC up to
the MPT whenever a requirement occurs.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. When a CH receives a request to purchase
services, it is crucial to identify if the services are subject to
the Service Contract Labor Standards (SCLS) and determine the
applicable MPT.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>Services Subject to Service Contract
Labor Standards</b>. Examples include services performed by
carpenters, electricians, mechanics, plumbers, iron workers,
craftsmen, operating engineers, and other laborers. Other examples
include court reporters, administrative assistants, engineering
technicians, and paralegals. To determine whether a service is
subject to SCLS, CHs and A/OPCs can search the Service Contract Act
wage determinations in SAM.gov to locate a list of applicable
occupations for a specified state and county.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>Services Not Subject to Service
Contract Labor Standards</b>. The following services are not
subject to SCLS:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) <b>Professional Services</b>.
Examples include services performed by architects, engineers,
professors, chemists, lawyers, doctors of medicine or dentistry,
and software engineers. These services may include office work
related to operations, teaching, practice of law or medicine, and
skilled services such as computer services, sales, and business
management. The primary duty must be the performance of work by
persons requiring knowledge of an advanced type in a field of
science or learning customarily acquired by a prolonged course of
specialized intellectual instruction or the performance of work
requiring invention, imagination, originality, or talent in a
recognized field of artistic or creative endeavor. If unsure, CHs
and A/OPCs can search the Service Contract Act wage determinations
in SAM.gov to confirm whether the type of worker is on the list for
the applicable location.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) <b>Statutory Exemptions from SCLS
Coverage</b>. These services include the following:</p>
        <p>(a) Construction, alteration, or repair, including painting, and
decorating, of public buildings or public works (These services are
covered by the Davis-Bacon Act.)</p>
        <p>(b) Transporting freight or personnel where published tariff
rates are in effect</p>
        <p>(c) Furnishing services by radio, telephone, telegraph, or cable
companies subject to the Communications Act of 1934</p>
        <p>(d) Public utility service</p>
        <p>(e) U.S. Postal Service</p>
        <p>(f) Services performed outside the U.S. (except in territories
administered by the U.S., as defined in the Act)</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) <b>Regulatory Exemptions from SCLS
Coverage</b>. These services include the following:</p>
        <p>(a) Shipping by common carrier, when the Government packs the
item for a company to pick up and ship (e.g., UPS or FedEx)</p>
        <p>(b) Maintenance, calibration, or repair of the following types
of equipment:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(1) Automated data processing equipment</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(2) Scientific equipment and medical apparatus or
equipment if the application of micro- electronic circuitry or
other technology of at least similar sophistication is an essential
element</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(3) Office/business machines not otherwise exempt
if such services are performed by the manufacturer or supplier of
the equipment</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) <b>Commercially Exempt</b>. The below
services are exempt when the following criteria apply: The service
is offered and sold regularly, furnished at “market” or
“catalog” prices, and provided by merchant employee
spending a small portion of available hours for Government
services.</p>
        <p>(a) Maintenance and servicing of motorized vehicles owned by
Federal agencies</p>
        <p>(b) Lodging, meals, and space in hotels/motels for
conferences</p>
        <p>(c) Real estate services</p>
        <p>(d) Transportation on regularly scheduled routes</p>
        <p>(e) Relocation services</p>
        <p>(f) Maintenance, calibration, repair, and/or installation
services for all types of equipment obtained from manufacturer or
supplier of the equipment under a sole source contract.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>