<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_8-5">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">8-5.</ph> Subscriptions for Training Access</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a.</p>
        <p>Subscriptions for access to on-demand training (e.g., training
platform, portal, or website) are FAR-based transactions and
subject to the MPT. The MPT applies to the dollar value of the
total cost of the subscription. Subscription services for groups or
organizations typically set a threshold or limit to the number of
employees who can access training services via the subscription for
the flat subscription cost; the costs are not pro-rated or adjusted
by the number of actual employees that</p>
        <p>actually access</p>
        <p>the training.</p>
        <p>Subscriptions should be in the name of the agency.</p>
        <p/>
        <p/>
        <p/>
        <p outputclass="List1">b.</p>
        <p>
          <b>Example</b>
        </p>
        <p>
          <b>
            <i>.</i>
          </b>
        </p>
        <p>A CH is buying a subscription to a training vendor’s
on-demand training site for a cost of $9,000 per year. Up to 300
employees can access on-demand training under the subscription and
the cost is not pro-rated based on actual use. The CH may use the
GPC to purchase the subscription because it falls within the
$10,000 MPT. If the cost per year is $11,000, the requirement must
be forwarded to</p>
        <p>contracting</p>
        <p>for action. </p>
        <p/>
      </conbody>
    </concept>