<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_7-1">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">7-1.</ph> Refunds Overview</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. The servicing bank will provide the CPM a
summary report of refunds broken down by quarter, Level 3
hierarchy, and Level 2 fund centers. The report is due 30 calendar
days after the quarter ends. The servicing bank will provide
training and assistance to the CPM and Level 3 A/OPCs in
recalculating the Army refunds as required by DPCAP and the GSA
SmartPay® 3 Contract. The servicing bank, in coordination with
the CPM, will annually review refunds such as merchant credits,
uncashed checks, and other miscellaneous refunds (foreign currency
exchange fee) to ensure the Army receives all refunds due (both
CONUS and OCONUS).</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. Any refunds or credits due to the Army may be
received in a manner agreed to between the Army and the servicing
bank (e.g., ACH, checks).</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. The Army will coordinate with DFAS quarterly
regarding collected and outstanding refunds.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. If DFAS does not receive the DD 1131 within 30
calendar days of the servicing bank’s refund email
notification, HQDA ASA/ALT (SAAR-ZR) will collect the outstanding
refunds. If the refunds are not collected within 60 calendar days,
DFAS will forward the refunds to Treasury account 21R3210.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>