<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_3-3">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">3-3.</ph> Joint Appointment Module (JAM)</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. JAM is the PIEE module used to initiate,
review, approve, store, and terminate required delegations of
procurement authority and/or appointments. JAM GPC appointments
result in issuance of GPC Delegation and/or Appointment letters and
DD Form 577 Appointment/Termination Record (commonly referred to as
a Certifying Officer Appointment). Personnel delegated the proper
authority role identified in Table 3-1 can terminate the following
appointments in PIEE and JAM.</p>
        <p id="Table_3-1_Roles_and_Termination_Capabil">Table 3-1: Roles and Termination
Capability</p>
        <table>
          <tgroup cols="7">
            <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="2.3*"/>
            <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="0.8*"/>
            <colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" colwidth="0.8*"/>
            <colspec colname="col4" colnum="4" colwidth="0.9*"/>
            <colspec colname="col5" colnum="5" colwidth="0.8*"/>
            <colspec colname="col6" colnum="6" colwidth="0.8*"/>
            <colspec colname="col7" colnum="7" colwidth="0.7*"/>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry nameend="col7" namest="col1">
                  <b>Appointments</b>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <b>Roles for your Organization/Activity</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>A/BO</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>CH</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>Certifying Officer</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>A/OPC</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>OA/OPC</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>CPM</b>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <b>GPC Help Administrator Manager (HAM)</b> can
terminate</entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>X</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>X</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>X</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>X</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>X</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>X</b>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <b>OA/OPC</b> can terminate</entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>X</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>X</b>
                </entry>
                <entry/>
                <entry>
                  <b>X</b>
                </entry>
                <entry/>
                <entry/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <b>A/OPC</b> can terminate</entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>X</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>X</b>
                </entry>
                <entry/>
                <entry/>
                <entry/>
                <entry/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <b>DD577 Appointing Authority (AA)</b> can
terminate</entry>
                <entry/>
                <entry/>
                <entry>
                  <b>X</b>
                </entry>
                <entry/>
                <entry/>
                <entry/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>
                  <b>GPC Delegating/Appointing Authority (DAA)</b> can
terminate</entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>X</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>X</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>X</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>X</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>X</b>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <b>X</b>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. JAM is an application within PIEE that is
mandated by DoD for use by GPC program participants. The Army is
not required to issue or retain paper copies of appointments issued
using JAM. The <xref format="html" href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/asda/dpc/ce/pc/docs/smart-pay/Ref-B-JAM-GPC-Role-Descriptions_2-10-22.docx" scope="external">
            <u>DPCAP</u>
          </xref>
          <xref format="html" href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/asda/dpc/ce/pc/docs/smart-pay/Ref-B-JAM-GPC-Role-Descriptions.docx" scope="external">
            <u>Joint
Appointment Module (JAM) GPC Role Descriptions Guide</u>
          </xref>
provides tables that identify GPC JAM roles and special designation
authority types.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. JAM is mandated as the enterprise tool for
appointing and delegating authority to GPC personnel. JAM is the
PIEE module used to initiate, review, approve, store, and terminate
required delegations of procurement authority and/or appointments.
Electronic delegation of authority and/or appointment letters must
be granted for GPC program participants as indicated in the <xref format="html" href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/asda/dpc/ce/pc/docs/systems/Ref-B-JAM-GPC-Role-Descriptions.docx" scope="external">
            <u>JAM
GPC Role Descriptions</u>

          </xref>, which also identifies CH delegation
limits associated with each SD. Program participant nomination,
registration, and appointment processes are described in the <xref format="html" href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/asda/dpc/ce/pc/training.html" scope="external">
            <u>GPC
Program One-Pagers</u>
          </xref>.<ph id="_12.4.2.1_Tracking_Training"/>
        </p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>Tracking Training in JAM</b>. PIEE
includes capabilities to track and report training course
completion, issue automatic training reminders for recurring
requirements, and systemically promote compliance with requirements
to complete training prior to appointment issuance. To promote
compliance with training requirements, JAM system validations
prohibit appointment of individuals who, if required for their
roles, have not completed CLG 0010 and CLG 006. A system interface
has been deployed to automatically record completion of all
required and recommended DAU courses.  When tracking training
in JAM, GPC Program PIEE users are not required to manually load
electronic copies of training certificates for courses that
automatically were recorded via the DAU/PIEE system interface
(i.e., DAU is listed as the “Source”). Data is
displayed in the JAM application and available through EDA Advance
Reporting with DAU listed as “DAU,” as the source is
directly from the system of record. Because DAU is the primary
source for validating course completion, when training completion
is recorded via the DAU interface, the trainee is not required to
provide a copy (electronic or paper) to GPC program management,
thereby reducing paperwork, improving auditability, and ensuring
proper record retention. PIEE additionally includes the
capability for GPC program participants to manually record
completion of non-DAU training and provide/maintain an electronic
copy of training certificates, which are then available to program
managers and auditors as necessary. DoD GPC One-Pagers <xref format="html" href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/asda/dpc/ce/pc/docs/training/3OP010_Uploading-Training-Certificates-to-PIEE-JAM.pptx" scope="external">3OP010
- Uploading Training Certificates to PIEE/JAM</xref> and <xref format="html" href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/asda/dpc/ce/pc/docs/training/3OP038_Tracking-Training-in-PIEE.pptx" scope="external">3OP038
- Tracking Training in PIEE</xref>, provide details on these
capabilities. <ph id="Hlk94774553"/>
        </p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>