<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_6-15">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">6-15.</ph> Deployed to an OCONUS Area of
Responsibility (AOR)</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. The Deploying Activity will identify CHs and
BOs that will be using the GPC while in a deployed status OCONUS.
It is preferred to use existing Cardholders if available.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. Deployed situations may include humanitarian
and contingency operations, training exercises, and/or TDY that
involves use of the card to make mission-related purchases while
OCONUS.</p>
        <p id="Hlk165440517" outputclass="List1">c. The OCONUS AOR will
determine whether the deploying CH will either 1) use their
existing card or 2) receive a new card for use within the OCONUS
AOR.  The deploying CH’s home station contracting office
will coordinate with the contracting office and A/OPC of the
deployment AOR for instructions. If deploying CHs receive new
OCONUS cards, their existing card accounts will be suspended or
terminated. If GPCs are authorized while deployed, the local RM
must make appropriate adjustments to the LOAs, and additional
information must be entered in the servicing bank’s EAS if
needed. The BO must notify the A/OPC in writing if GPCs are
authorized while deployed. OCONUS GPCs will be managed to meet the
program requirements of the issuing agency.</p>
        <p/>
        <p>d.     <b>Card Deployment
Steps</b>:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Cardholder receives OCONUS
orders/assignment.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Deploying Activity determines which CHs will
need to make purchases OCONUS and notifies the billing
official(s).</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Billing official informs home station
A/OPC.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) Home station A/OPC coordinates with OCONUS AOR
to determine if CH will retain current card or receive new card at
the AOR.</p>
        <p>a) <b>Retain current card</b>. CONUS home station
A/OPC will provide support and oversight.</p>
        <p>b) <b>Receive new card</b>. OCONUS contracting office
will provide support and oversight.  Home station A/OPC
suspends or terminates former card.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">5) Resource manager adjusts LOAs on the card
account to be used OCONUS if needed.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">6) Supporting A/OPC provides training to the
deploying CH and billing official on use of $25,000 Overseas
Simplified Acquisition authority and/or Emergency Type Operation
(ETO) training.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>