<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_14-5">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">14-5.</ph> Split Purchases</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. A split purchase is the intentional breaking
down of a known requirement to stay within a CH’s single
purchase limit or the MPT to avoid other procurement methods or
competition requirements. Split purchases are prohibited with the
GPC (FAR 13.003(c)(2)). Direct requirements exceeding the MPT to
the contracting office. Cardholders and A/OPCs should check with
their legal advisor if unsure whether a proposed purchase would be
considered split.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. The requirement is the total quantity and price
known at the time of purchase. If a CH purchases as they become
aware of a requirement, the requirement is each purchase. If a CH
consolidates purchases and buys once a day, the requirement becomes
what was received during that day.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. Examples of split purchases include, but are
not limited to, the following:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) A single CH making multiple purchases from the
same merchant on the same day, the total of which exceeds the
single purchase limit, and the total requirement was known at the
time of the first purchase.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) A single CH purchasing the same/similar item(s)
from multiple merchants on the same day, the total of which exceeds
the single purchase limit, and the total was known at the time of
the first purchase.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) A single CH making multiple purchases of
similar items from the same or multiple merchants over a period of
time when the total requirement was known at time of the first
purchase and the value exceeds the single purchase limit.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) Multiple CHs under the same supervision or BO
purchasing the same/similar item(s) the same day or in a compressed
timeframe when the total requirement is known at a given time and
exceeds the single purchase limit.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">5) Requirements exceeding the MPT (e.g.,
requirements for monthly recurring services, in which the monthly
payment is less than the applicable services MPT, but the known
yearly total exceeds the MPT).</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>What is not a Split Purchase</b>.
Sometimes transactions appear like a split purchase, but they do
not meet the definition and are allowable to purchase with the GPC.
See common examples below:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Multiple purchases to the same vendor which do
not exceed the single purchase limit or MPT.
<b>Example</b>. A CH makes two separate $100 purchases
from the same vendor on the same day. This situation is not a split
purchase because the combined total of $200 is below the MPT.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Multiple purchases to the same vendor when the
CH purchases as requirements are received.
<b>Example</b>. A CH receives a $6,000 purchase request
on Monday. He obtains funding and approval and places the order. On
Wednesday, the CH receives a purchase request from the same
customer to buy additional items from the same vendor for $5,000.
He obtains funding and approval and places a second order to the
same vendor. This situation is not a split purchase, because the CH
was unaware of the second request when he made the initial
purchase.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>