<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_2-6">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">2-6.</ph> Primary and Alternate Level 5 - Billing
Official Duties and Responsibilities</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. Review and reconcile CH statements against
receipts and documentation.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. If a CH is absent, approve CH’s statement
within the required timeframe.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. Certify billing statements electronically
within 5 business days of the end of the billing cycle.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. Forward official invoice to DFAS for manually
paid accounts within 15 days of receipt.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. Verify payments to be legal, proper, necessary,
and correct per Government rules and regulations.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">f. Complete all assigned IOD data mining cases in
a timely manner.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">g. Ensure CHs upload all transaction documentation
in the servicing bank’s EAS.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">h. Report questionable transactions to the Level 4
A/OPC and/or appropriate authorities for review.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">i. Resolve any questionable purchases with the CH
and A/OPC.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">j. Recommend in writing GPC credit limits to the
RM and Level 4 A/OPC, for CHs under BO account.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">k. Coordinate with the bank to resolve payment
issues.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">l. Identify and communicate billing discrepancies
to the bank’s transaction dispute point of contact.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">m. Send a report to the A/OPC detailing the
circumstances of any lost, stolen or compromised cards.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">n. Ensure designation of the proper line of
accounting.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">o. Ensure an Alternate BO is appointed.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">p. Notify the Level 4 A/OPC promptly to close any
CH accounts no longer needed.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">q. Notify the Level 4 A/OPC to terminate or
reassign the BO account prior to departure/reassignment.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">r. Serve as the point of contact for GPC
compliance inspections/audits/reviews.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">s. Support A/OPC surveillance reviews.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">t. Complete any corrective actions identified
after each audit or A/OPC review.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">u. Establish/recommend CH and BO credit limits to
the A/OPC based on historical use.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">v. Ensure spending limits are held to the minimum
amount necessary to meet mission requirements.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">w. Ensure spending limits are not exceeded.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">x. Verify appropriate and sufficient funds are
available prior to CH purchases.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">y. Ensure all transactions are for valid, official
Government requirements.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">z. Provide written approval or disapproval of
purchase requests to the CH.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">aa. Ensure sources are rotated when possible.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">bb. Ensure CHs are not splitting requirements to
avoid exceeding the MPT.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">cc. Review and ensure supporting documentation is
loaded in the bank’s EAS prior to certification.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">dd. Register for electronic data notifications
within the bank’s EAS for automated email alerts.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">ee. Ensure convenience check data is
maintained.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">ff. Ensure Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Form
1099 has been completed and reported for convenience checks.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">gg. Ensure sales taxes are not paid (as
appropriate).</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">hh. Immediately notify A/OPC upon discovery of
suspected unauthorized purchases.</p>
        <p>ii. Notify the A/OPC when CH or BO personnel changes occur.</p>
        <p>jj. Immediately notify of lost or stolen cards.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>