<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_11-9">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">11-9.</ph> Non-Cardholder Fraud</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. Non-cardholder fraud involves the use of the
card account or CH data by an unauthorized person. Non-cardholder
fraud is investigated by special units within the servicing bank.
Any information acquired relating to non-cardholder fraud should be
reported. The risk of non-cardholder fraud is higher in the
following situations:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) <b>Account/Card never received</b>. A
new or replacement card has been mailed to the CH but was not
received. This may be due to a third-party interception. In this
case, the account should be cancelled, and new card issued.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) <b>Lost or Stolen Account/Card</b>.
If the CH reports the account as lost or stolen, the account will
be cancelled and new one issued. Reporting the account as lost or
stolen does not relieve the Federal Government for payment for any
transactions that were made by the account holder prior to losing
it.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) <b>Altered or counterfeit cards</b>.
This occurs when third parties obtain account information and used
that information to make purchases with an altered or counterfeit
card. If the bank recognizes a fraudulent pattern of use at the
time of authorization, the bank will validate the use of the
account with the CH and/or suspend the account.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) <b>Account takeover/ Identity
theft</b>. In this case, the account holder’s identity
has been compromised and a third party has requested a new account
by providing confidential information about the account holder. Any
CH who believes that he or she may have been subject to identity
theft should contact the bank’s customer-service department.
Once a determination is made that an account has been compromised,
investigation is the responsibility of the bank. Unless a
government employee is determined to be involved in the fraud, the
agency generally does not participate in the investigation. The
account will be closed, and a replacement account opened.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>If Non-Cardholder Fraud
Occurs</b>. If fraud is detected on the account, the CH must
immediately report the incident to the following: BO, A/OPC and
servicing bank. The servicing bank will block and/or terminate the
account. If necessary, the bank will then issue a new card with a
new account number. Also, the bank will mail a “Statement of
Fraud” letter to the cardholder, which must be completed and
returned promptly. Sometimes, unauthorized transactions will appear
on the billing statement, even though the account was reported lost
or stolen. Cardholders should report all unauthorized transactions
by calling the bank's customer service telephone number.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>Non-Cardholder Fraud Methods</b>.
Some of the different methods of fraud include the following:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) <b>Counterfeit Accounts</b>. To make
fake cards, criminals use the newest technology to
“skim” information contained on magnetic stripes of
cards and also to pass security features (such as holograms).</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) <b>Lost or Stolen Accounts</b>.
Physical cards are stolen from a workplace, gym or unattended
vehicle.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) <b>Card Not Present.</b> Internet
fraud occurs whenever account information is stolen and used to
make online purchases. Merchant asks for the CVC code (located on
the back of the card) to help prevent this type of fraud.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) <b>Phishing</b>. Phishing occurs
whenever a CH receives a fake email directing him or her to enter
sensitive personal information on a phony website. The false
website enables the criminal to steal information from the account
holder.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">5) <b>Non-Receipt</b>. This type of
fraud occurs whenever new or replacement cards are mailed and then
stolen while in transit.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">6) <b>Identity Theft</b>. A criminal
applies for an account using another person’s identity and
information.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>Detecting Non-Cardholder
Fraud</b>. One of the first signs that an individual is a
victim of fraud is at least one “mystery expense”
showing up in the monthly statement. To help detect fraud,
cardholders should review their statement by performing the
following actions:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Look for transactions you do not recall
making.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Check for unknown vendors.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Search for account withdrawals you do not
remember making.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. <b>Avoiding Non-Cardholder Fraud</b>.
Cardholders should use the following practices to avoid fraud:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Secure account number and information.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Safeguard your personal identification number
(PIN). Do not write it down; memorize it. Do not share your
PIN.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Monitor your card during transactions. When the
card is returned, check to make sure it is yours.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) Immediately report lost or stolen accounts
and/or any questionable charges.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">5) Sign the back of a new card as soon as you
receive it. If you do not receive a replacement card before the
expiration date of the older card, contact the bank.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">6) Destroy unwanted or expired cards. Shred or
secure monthly statements and receipts.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">7) Electronically verify charges appearing on your
monthly statement.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">8) Unless you initiated the purchase, never give
your account information over the telephone, through the mail, or
on the internet.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">9) Consistently check your account for accuracy of
personal and billing information. Notify the bank if your personal
information and/or address needs updating.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">10) Never let a telemarketer or salesperson
pressure you into agreeing to a deal.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">11) Be aware of common scams and contact your
A/OPC and the bank for unusual situations.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">12) Inform your A/OPC if you won’t be using
your card for an extended time. The A/OPC will temporarily suspend
the card or reduce the single purchase limit to $1.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>