<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_2-5">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">2-5.</ph> Primary and Alternate Level 4 A/OPC
Duties and Responsibilities</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. Manage the day-to-day operation of the GPC
program at an installation/organization.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. Assist CHs and BOs in fulfilling their
responsibilities.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. Serve as the liaison between the Level 3 A/OPC
and the installation/organization GPC personnel.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. Liaison between the financial/contracting
communities as it applies to the GPC payment process.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. Serve as the installation/organization point of
contact for bank-related matters.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">f. Provide business advice to supporting
organizations, CHs, BOs, and small business specialists.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">g. Participate in meetings. Communicate Army
policy updates and internal review findings.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">h. Assist the Level 3 to increase rebates and
lower administrative and merchant costs.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">i. Ensure the proper disposition of rebate
checks.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">j. Ensure GPC Program personnel are properly
trained and appointed.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">k. Maintain currency in training to perform their
respective duties.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">l. Establish and maintain a manual or electronic
file for each BO and CH per retention rules.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">m. Establish, maintain, and terminate CH and BO
accounts within the servicing bank’s EAS.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">n. Ensure that all managing accounts have a
primary and alternate BO.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">o. Evaluate the effectiveness of each BO’s
ability to review, approve and reconcile transactions.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">p. Ensure timely reconciliation of all CH and BO
accounts at the end of the billing cycle.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">q. Coordinate with RMs to ensure timely
certification and payment.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">r. Confirm completion of required initial and
refresher training for all CHs and BOs.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">s. Maintain training records within PIEE and
JAM.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">t. Coordinate with the Accountable Property
Officer (APO).</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">u. Provide training to CHs on property
accountability procedures.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">v. Nominate and appoint CHs and BOs within PIEE
and JAM.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">w. Maintain and terminate appointment letters in
JAM.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">x. Maintain program oversight through IOD, annual
management assessment, and bank reports.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">y. Complete all assigned IOD cases, monthly
reviews, and semi-annual reviews per policy timelines.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">z. Address program deficiencies and discrepancies
identified in IOD.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">aa. Annually assess each CH’s continuing
need to maintain an account.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">bb. Close unused accounts as appropriate.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">cc. Request justification in writing from BOs when
accounts with little activity must remain open.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">dd. Perform Level 4 Annual Assessment using the
Annual Assessment Checklist.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">ee. Develop and implement local GPC
procedures.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">ff. Inform CHs of prohibited items and
services.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">gg. Monitor bank transaction reports to identify
potential improper use of the GPC.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">hh. Take corrective action to address any
suspected legal or policy violations.</p>
        <p>ii. In the event of unauthorized card activity or fraud, set the
single purchase limit to $1.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">jj. Monitor bank transaction declination reports
to identify potential fraud activity.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">kk. Review transactions of newly appointed CHs
within four months of appointment.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">ll. Reduce managing accounts as appropriate to
meet mission needs.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">mm. Process requests for user identifications in
the servicing bank’s EAS.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">nn. Screen any accounts which have not been used
within six months and take appropriate action.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">oo. Utilize the Semi-Annual Report to brief
management.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">pp. Process and retain waivers, exceptions, and
deviations.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">qq. Ensure lost/stolen cards are immediately
reported.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">rr. Temporarily suspend any account over 30
calendar days past due.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">ss. Suspend entire Level 4 organization accounts
for any account over 120 days past due.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">tt. Review and submit reports as required.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">uu. Analyze trends to improve the Program.</p>
        <p>vv. Assist BOs and CHs with reports as necessary.</p>
        <p>ww. Activate, deactivate/terminate, and maintain (adjust limits,
etc.) CH and BO accounts.</p>
        <p>xx. Identify, monitor, and resolve any terminated accounts with
outstanding credits.</p>
        <p>yy. Ensure appropriate separation of duties and span of control
ratios are maintained.</p>
        <p>zz. Proactively address automated email notifications (e.g., IOD
cases or delinquencies). aaa. Address deficiencies and
discrepancies impacting program effectiveness or efficiencies.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>