<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_10-3">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">10-3.</ph> Convenience Check Reporting (IRS Form
1099)</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. The DFAS Tax Office is responsible for DoD
compliance with 1099 reporting requirements.</p>
        <p>DFAS provides the convenience check payment data to the
applicable A/OPC and checkwriter for determining the tax reporting
requirements and completion of specifically identified data not
available to, or captured by, the contracted bank. The checkwriter
is responsible for ensuring the completion and return of the data
to DFAS.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. The Army is required to file a Form 1099-MISC
for payments to vendors or individuals totaling more than $600 in a
tax year.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. 1099 reporting involves the collection of
Personally Identifiable Information (i.e., Taxpayer Identification
Number and Social Security Number) and must be safeguarded with
appropriate oversight controls in accordance with the Privacy
Act.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. IRS Form 1099 must be issued to check
recipients for certain payment types. (See <xref format="html" href="https://www.irs.gov/instructions/i1099mec" scope="external">
            <u>IRS
Instructions for Form 1099 - MISC</u>
          </xref> for more detail regarding
payment types that are not reportable to DFAS.) Convenience check
data must be reported to the IRS as income to the check
recipients.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. <b>Tax Reporting</b>. The DFAS Tax
Office emails convenience check purchasing data monthly to the
checkwriters for verification. The email contains a spreadsheet,
instructions, and the suspense date for return. Upon receipt of the
spreadsheet, checkwriters must update the required columns and
email the spreadsheet to the following mailbox, <xref format="html" href="mailto:dfas.cco-checks@mail.mil" scope="external">
            <u>dfas.cco-checks@mail.mil</u>

          </xref>,
within five business days upon receipt. This data is used to
process IRS 1099-MISC forms. The BO is responsible to monitor the
checkwriter's compliance. Instructions for submitting convenience
check 1099 tax reporting information are available on the <xref format="html" href="https://www.dfas.mil/contractorsvendors/taxinfo/Convenience-Check-1099PRO/" scope="external">
            <u>DFAS
DoD Government Convenience Checks website</u>
          </xref>.</p>
        <p>Checkwriters will obtain the vendor information and W-9 required
for tax reporting before paying the vendor, as stated in DoD
7000-14R FMR 26 Volume 10, Chapter 6, 060209. The checkwriter is
responsible for tax reporting for the convenience checks they issue
and for obtaining a signed IRS Form W9, Request for Taxpayer
Identification Number and Certification.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">f. DFAS ESS Tax Office will perform the following
actions:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Provide monthly spreadsheets containing the
servicing bank’s universe of convenience check payment data
to A/OPCs, BOs, and checkwriters for completion of additional
information.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Provide tax reporting guidance to
checkwriters.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Aggregate the payment data to determine tax
form issuance and issue tax forms to check recipients.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) Electronically report the payment data to the
IRS.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">5) Provide report to A/OPCs, BOs, and checkwriters
of data that resulted in tax form issuance.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">6) Provide customer service to tax form
recipients.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">7) Issue corrected tax forms.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">g. A/OPCs, Billing Officials, and Checkwriters
will perform the following actions:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Supplement the payment data with the necessary
reporting data, annotate payment as reportable or not reportable,
and return spreadsheets to tax office.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Maintain and update points of contact in the
U.S. Bank account.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Maintain final summarized spreadsheet provided
by DFAS and copies of the check registers for audit purposes.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) Have a signed W-9 from vendors on file.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">5) Ensure that spreadsheets are completed
correctly and returned by deadline.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">h. The checkwriter must complete the following
fields in the DFAS spreadsheet:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) <b>Payment Description</b>. Define
the purpose of the payment to the vendor.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) <b>Yes or No Reportable
Transaction</b>. Indicate whether vendor and payment type are
tax reportable. “Yes” is reportable. “No”
is not reportable.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) For all tax reportable payments, complete the
following fields:</p>
        <p>(a) Vendor’s Taxpayer Identification Number: SSN, EIN,
ITIN</p>
        <p>(b) Vendor’s Name and Doing Business As Name</p>
        <p>(c) Vendor’s Current mailing address</p>
        <p>(d) Vendor’s City</p>
        <p>(e) Vendor’s State</p>
        <p>(f) Vendor’s Zip Code</p>
        <p>(g) Vendor’s Country</p>
        <p>(h) Indicate the payment amount in <b>one</b> of the
following fields, as applicable:</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(1) Check paid for Rents, Rentals, Leases</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(2) Check paid for Royalties</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(3) Check paid to individual for medical
research</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(4) Check Paid for Medical/Dental Services</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(5) Check paid to a vendor or individual not
Government employee</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(6) Check paid for Attorney Fees</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>