<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_14-3">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">14-3.</ph> Prohibited Transactions</title>
      <conbody>
        <p>The following list identifies supplies and services that are
prohibited from purchase with the GPC.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. <b>Aircraft fuel and oil</b>. The Air
card is the appropriate procurement method.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>Auto Insurance for Government-owned
vehicles</b>.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>Bail and Bond Payments</b>.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>Betting, casino gaming chips, and
off-track betting</b>.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. <b>Cash advances, including money orders
and travelers’ checks</b>.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">f. <b>Court costs, alimony, and child
support</b>.</p>
        <p id="Table_14-1_Cyber_Security_Prohibitions" outputclass="List1">g.
<b>Dating and escort services</b>.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">h. <b>Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO)
settlements</b>.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">i. <b>Equipment, Systems, and Services Using
Covered Telecommunications Equipment or Services as a Substantial
Component or Critical Technology</b>. FAR 13.201(j)(1)
prohibits use of the GPC to “procure, obtain, or extend or
renew a contract to procure or obtain, any equipment, system, or
service that uses covered telecommunications equipment or services
as a substantial or essential component of any system, or as a
critical technology as part of any system, unless an exception
applies or a waiver is granted.”</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">j. <b>Fines</b>. Use of the GPC to
settle a commercial or governmental fine is generally
prohibited.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">k. <b>Foreign currency</b>.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">l. <b>Gift Certificates and Gift
Cards</b>. Buying gift certificates and cards is generally
prohibited. Gift certificates and gift cards are considered cash
advances and must not be purchased with the GPC, even to obtain
items from merchants that do not accept the GPC. As with cash and
near-cash, gift certificates and gift cards are prohibited because
they are easily misappropriated, and the award of gift certificates
or gift cards requires the submission of 1099 reports in accordance
with IRS regulations. The Army is required to file a form 1099-MISC
for payments to individuals totaling more than $600 in a tax
year.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">m. <b>Perfluorooctane Sulfonate (PFOS) or
Perfluorooctanoic Acid (PFOA) Containing Items</b>.
Cardholders must not procure any covered items that contain PFOS or
PFOA. Covered items include (1) nonstick cookware or cooking
utensils for use in galleys or dining facilities; and (2)
upholstered furniture, carpets, and rugs that have been treated
with stain-resistant coatings.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">n. <b>Personal use Purchases.</b>
        </p>
        <p outputclass="List1">o. <b>Pharmaceuticals</b>.
Pharmaceuticals must be purchased through the DLA supply
system.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">p. <b>Repair of leased GSA vehicles</b>.
The fleet card is the appropriate method for these repairs.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">q. <b>Salaries and Wages.</b>
        </p>
        <p outputclass="List1">r. <b>Savings bonds</b>.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">s. <b>Supplies or Services from military
personnel or civilian employees</b> (e.g., when Government
employees are acting as vendors).</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">t. <b>Taxes.</b> Use of the GPC for
personal tax payments is prohibited because personal expenses
cannot be charged to the GPC. As a Federal Government entity, DoD
is exempt from paying most taxes to any other Federal, State, or
local authority. (Some states, like New Mexico, levy taxes the
Federal Government must pay.) For more information, see the GSA
State Tax Exemption Information for Government Charge Cards.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">u. <b>Tax on Certain Foreign
Procurements.</b> CHs will not use the GPC as a method of
payment or purchase when a contract instrument contains FAR Clause
52.229-12, unless DFARS Clause 252.229-7014 is also present. In
certain circumstances, the Government must withhold a two percent
excise tax on foreign payments to vendors to comply with the FAR
and IRS regulations. The GPC does not provide a method to
accomplish this withholding. As a result, the GPC is prohibited
from being used.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">v. <b>Telecommunication Systems</b>. Use
of the GPC to purchase major telecommunication systems, such as
Federal Telecommunications System or Defense Switched Network (DSN)
systems, is prohibited. A contract vehicle is required because such
purchases include special terms and conditions. DFARS 239.74
governs DoD’s acquisition of telecommunications.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">w. <b>TikTok</b>. In accordance with FAR
13.201(k), the prohibition in FAR 4.2202 on use of a ByteDance
covered application (“TikTok”) applies to purchases at
or below the MPT where the performance of the contract may require
the presence or use of a covered application (e.g., where social
media advertising services might be part of the procurement),
unless an exception is granted.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">x. <b>Video Surveillance
Cameras</b>.</p>
        <p id="Toc153185523" outputclass="List1">y. <ph id="Toc153185524"/>
          <b>Wire
transfers.</b>
        </p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>