<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_5-5">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">5-5.</ph> Liability of Cardholders and Billing
Officials</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. Individuals responsible for purchase card
violations (e.g., abuse, delinquency, internal fraud, or misuse)
are subject to administrative and disciplinary action. Pecuniary
liability may apply when there is an erroneous (illegal, improper,
or incorrect) payment. Commanders may take corrective action,
impose disciplinary action (including removal for serious or
repeated infractions), and take other administrative actions for
GPC infractions. If a potential GPC violation is discovered, GPC
personnel will ensure the violation is appropriately
investigated.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. Cardholders and billing officials are
designated as accountable officials per DoD FMR Volume 5, Chapter
5, paragraph 1.1.2. Certifying Officers (i.e., billing officials)
may be held pecuniary liable under USC Title 10, Subtitle A, Part
IV, Chap 165, Sec 2773a for an illegal, improper, or incorrect
payment.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. Cardholders who make unauthorized purchases or
allow others to use the card may be held liable for the total
dollar amount of unauthorized purchases made in connection with the
misuse or negligence. Cardholders may also be held pecuniary liable
for any payment certified based on false or negligent information
they provided to the Certifying Officer.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>Command/SCO Oversight</b>. The
Command/SCO must establish and maintain a command climate to
prevent undue influence over the actions of a cardholder. The
Command/SCO will establish local policies and procedures
identifying informal and formal disciplinary actions to be taken in
the event of noncompliance, fraud, misuse, and abuse. Disciplinary
actions should be based on the severity and frequency of the
infraction and can range from informal actions (such as written or
verbal counseling) to demotion, removal, or potential criminal
prosecution.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. <b>Investigation Required</b>.
Commands must be notified when evidence of fraud or other criminal
activity is identified. Evidence of deliberate abuse will be
referred to the CH’s and/or BO’s command for
appropriate action. The investigation must provide the Army
employee or military member with an opportunity to rebut the
presumed liability.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>