<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_7-2">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">7-2.</ph> Refund References</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">a. <b>References</b>.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) DoD Charge Card Guidebook, Paragraph A.4.9</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) OMB Circular A-123 Appendix B, Paragraph 7</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Public Law 110-116, Section 8067</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) DoD FMR Volume 10 Ch. 23 Section 230207 and
Vol. 10 Ch. 2 Section 020206 and 020302</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">b. <b>DoD Charge Card Guidebook Paragraph
A.4.9.1. Application of Refunds</b>. Pursuant to permanent
authority enacted in the Fiscal Year 2008 DoD Appropriation Act,
P.L. 110-116, Section 8067 and DoD FMR Vol. 10 Ch. 23 Section
230207 and Vol. 10 Ch. 2 Section 020206 and 020302, refunds
attributable to the use of the GPC may be credited to operation and
maintenance (O&amp;M), or research, development, test and
evaluation (RDT&amp;E) current accounts when the refunds are
received. Refunds may be applied at the Army or CH level, depending
on Army policy and the issuing bank task order. See DoD FMR Vol. 10
Ch. 23 Section 230207 and Vol. 10 Ch. 2 Section 020206 and
020302.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">c. <b>OMB Circular A-123 Appendix B Paragraph
7.5.</b> Unless specific authority exists allowing refunds to
be used for other purposes, refunds must be returned to the
appropriation or account from which they were expended and can be
used for any legitimate purchase by the appropriation or account to
which they were returned, or as otherwise authorized by
statute.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">d. <b>Transaction Credits.</b>
Transaction credits, which are funds sent back to DoD from the
contracted bank resulting from returned items, billing errors,
overpayments, duplicate payments, or erroneous payments, must be
credited to the original appropriation from which they were
disbursed.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">e. Vendors and contractors offer discounts, and
banks issue various government purchase cards that provide refunds
to encourage early payment of their receivables. The Army will take
advantage of the discount and refund offers only when it is
economically justified and advantageous to the Army. The Army will
follow the supporting guidelines for taking discounts and refunds
found in Title 5 of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) 1315, FAR
32.906(e), and OMB Circular A 123, Appendix B, Chapter 7.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>