<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept   PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<concept id="AFARS_Appendix-EE_12-4">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">12-4.</ph> Personnel Responsibilities for ETOs</title>
      <conbody>
        <p id="A.3.1_HCA" outputclass="List1">a. <b>HCA Responsibilities</b>
        </p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) HCAs have the delegated authority to authorize
most EAFs. No notification from DPCAP is necessary for HCAs to
implement these flexibilities. See DPCAP memorandum “<xref format="html" href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/policy/policyvault/USA001672-20-DPC.pdf" scope="external">
            <u>Emergency
Acquisition Flexibilities – Special Emergency Procurement
Authority and Head of the Contracting Activity Delegated
Authority</u>
          </xref>,” dated October 2, 2020, for guidance on
how to determine if it is appropriate to authorize the use of
EAFs.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) To meet the requirements of the FAR 2.101
micro-purchase definition, ensure guidance directs CHs to retain
ETO determinations to use elevated acquisition thresholds in their
purchase file.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Ensure compliance with the required ETO
internal controls.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) Ensure guidance requires supplemental oversight
for all accounts with elevated spending limits.</p>
        <p id="A.3.2_A_OPC_B.3.1">b.
<b>A/OPC Responsibilities</b>
        </p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Distribute policy and guidance with respect to
use of the GPC for each ETO.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Manage delegations of procurement authority for
designated ETO card accounts.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Raise monthly and single transaction limits
only when ETOs are being supported. There will be no blanket
increase of these CH authorities.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) Comply with DoD Purchase Log Information policy
to ensure the identification and capture of all ETO GPC purchases
(transactions and dollars).</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">5) Develop and implement a supplemental oversight
program for all accounts with elevated spending limits.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">6) Perform IOD case reviews for all ETO
transactions above $10,000.</p>
        <p id="A.3.3_ETOs_RM" outputclass="List1">c. <b>RM
Responsibilities</b>
        </p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Develop unique LOAs (alternate or default) as
required, to be used only when GPC purchases are made in support of
each ETO.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Assist in identifying and tracking all ETO
transactions.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Notify the A/OPC of fund availability.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) Update CH limits (e.g., cycle limits) as
needed.</p>
        <p id="A.3.4_Approving_Billing_Official" outputclass="List1">d. <b>Billing
Official Responsibilities</b>
        </p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Verify proper documentation is recorded and
maintained for ETO transactions.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Ensure CH compliance with all statutory and
regulatory guidance regarding ETOs.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Confirm CHs properly identify and record ETO
transactions in the bank’s EAS.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) Ensure CHs use the correct LOA, as required,
for ETO transactions.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">5) Ensure ETO convenience checks do not exceed
either the MPT authorized for convenience checks or the CH’s
authorized single purchase and other account spending limits.
Verify the vendor was unable to accept the GPC.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">6) Ensure all open-market transactions (i.e.,
those not placed under existing contracts) that exceed the
increased MPTs are performed by a Contracting Officer. All ETO
efforts conducted in accordance with <xref format="html" href="https://www.acquisition.gov/far/13.201" scope="external">FAR 13.201(g)</xref> can
be undertaken only by a Contracting Officer.</p>
        <p id="A.3.5_Cardholder_and" outputclass="List1">e. <b>CH and Convenience Check Account
Holder Responsibilities</b>
        </p>
        <p outputclass="List2">1) Identify all ETO transactions in the
bank’s EAS.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">2) Ensure the requiring activity’s PR&amp;A
details how the transaction supports the ETO.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">3) Ensure each GPC transaction is charged to the
LOA specifically established for that ETO.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">4) Ensure convenience checks remain a purchase
instrument of last resort.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>